 The most random specific topic, but I think it's actually kind of cool.
 There's so much to dig into this.
 Just a few quick things.
 We'll do a quick intro.
 I just want to set expectations for what we can do in the next hour.
 So I would say the only difference between me and you is that I just spend more time
 in agency, but that's basically it, right?
 So I'm not the big expert that has all the answers, you know, if we do, I've loaded this
 all the GPT and then we can ask together and discover together.
 So that's where I come.
 I just spent a lot more time trying to understand this.
 My hope is you bring it maybe because of your background, you maybe understand very specific
 aspects of these in different ways.
 Maybe you see different applications in the way, in the work that you do.
 So that's kind of the, the baseline one set.
 So quick intro.
 I'm proud of, I've been, gosh, I've been interested in AI since like the NLP days.
 If I tell somebody what NLP now is, I don't think they'll understand.
 Oh, NLP?
 Like what is that?
 But 10 years ago, that's where I started a lot of my explorations.
 I'm primarily an engineering and startup guy.
 Right now, I actually spend a lot of my time training young people for like 10 months, how
 to do cool things with AI.
 I'm also another professor at UBC.
 So I teach the first year UBC engineering class.
 So if anyone comes into UBC engineering, I'm the first face that welcomes them into the engineering
 experience.
 That's a little bit about me.
 So what we'll do is we'll go.
 You also dance too.
 Yeah.
 Oh, yeah.
 Have you, have you go to my class?
 Yeah, go to Bazao.
 Bazao.
 What?
 So it's funny.
 Right after this, I teach a dance class at Bazao, 8:30.
 So if you ever do salsa dancing or bachata, come.
 We'll do a completely different reading.
 Okay.
 So we have quite a few people.
 So we'll keep this short, but I still want to hear from you.
 So here's what I'm looking for, uh, name, uh, your AI readiness.
 So what I, so for me, it is number one is you use chat GPT, 10 is you spend a lot of
 your time understanding research papers, digging in and whatnot.
 And I'm just looking to understand how much, like, have you dug under the hood?
 So are you, do you use GPT or have you spent some time understanding what is this transformer
 thing?
 The KB cache thing, vector thing.
 I just want to understand how are we feeling underneath the hood.
 So according to that, I will real time adjust how we guide our discussion today.
 Cool.
 Hi buddy.
 I'm Farah Hussein.
 And, uh, uh, in terms of my ranking on that scale, I think I'm somewhere at three.
 Okay.
 Awesome.
 Perfect.
 Great.
 Hey, um, I'm Molan.
 I would say I'm at five, probably.
 Actually, maybe a little bit of, I don't want to go into like your whole background of what
 you do.
 I don't know how to ask that question without going into, uh, too much detail, too much detail.
 Maybe as short as you can keep it, whatever you think is important to know as it relates
 to this conversation.
 Okay.
 So I think, uh, in short, don't want to be left behind.
 That's why I'm...
 Okay.
 That's a good, that's a good answer.
 That's actually what I was hoping for.
 Good.
 FOMO.
 Huh?
 FOMO.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So, yeah, my name is Min.
 I'm a developer.
 So I would say like, uh, 80% or A for using the AI stuff.
 Okay.
 So FOMO as well.
 Cool.
 Awesome.
 Uh, so far, I mean...
 I would say like, uh, 3, I think.
 Okay.
 I mean, I'm just like, trying to get to like, know more about the AI stuff.
 Cool.
 Okay.
 If it's 3, I'm 2.
 Two?
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Yeah, don't hurt him like that.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 I was like, how dare you say that?
 You're hurting my feelings.
 Well, you should have heard what he was talking about.
 But I want to know, uh, what's interesting for me is when I get into a case, I want to know
 when to come to the algorithms and try to figure things out.
 I don't need to know them, but I need to know.
 I understand.
 Yeah.
 My name is Noah.
 I'd say I'm about a 7.
 I spent a lot of time when I was with Pranav last year, thinking into the Transformer and
 the architecture.
 Okay.
 I'm Zen.
 I also spent a lot of time with Pranav.
 I would say I'm about a 6.
 He's going into computer science, so I'm going into engineering.
 So a little less focused on AI, but yeah.
 Cool.
 Okay.
 My name is Juan.
 I want to say I'm about 7, probably.
 Okay.
 Cool.
 Uh, sorry, just before you go.
 Have you applied a lot of this in your, uh, in your work, like, day-to-day as well?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Very interesting.
 Hi.
 Okay.
 I'm just making notes.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 I'm just making notes.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 I'm just making notes.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 I'm just making notes.
 Yeah.
 Just making notes.
 Yes.
 My name is Cyrus, and, um, I say I'm a 4, but I came here to, like, catch myself back
 up to what is currently happening.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Great.
 My name is Rachel.
 You're a 4 now.
 Okay.
 It's a good skill.
 It's the same reason I'm here.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 We're going to normalize this now.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 You've got to rotate them.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 Yes.
 I know.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 It's a good skill.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Awesome.
 Okay.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I'm not in here, I want to touch up with things, but I...
 I think I'm around 2, but based on what you said, I think I would like a minus 2.
 I'm still going to learn more about this.
 My name is Geva, and yes, people said to zero, I'm definitely far into negatives.
 This is awesome.
 Just to get a better understanding of what you're also in my experience to develop in Latinx.
 This is crazy, but okay, we'll come back to that.
 So yeah, good to hear from you.
 Hi, I'm Melvi, I think I will stand 6, 7 days.
 Cool.
 I started and worked in AI, but my current role is not in AI, that's why I'm here, though.
 So, my name is Sahih.
 I would say I'm like 6, I use a lot of AI at work, and apart from work, the students talk as well,
 but mostly in the app there, so I don't really go into the black box,
 but opportunities like this, and just talking to AI about its black box as well.
 Yeah, it's what I'm trying to do.
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 What's the name?
 I worked as a systems engineer for one of the big banks.
 I recently retired.
 I have to say that even in reading papers like this, even back in the 80s, we published Shannon's theory of COVID-19 power.
 That's a fundamental theory of information stored in time to rush in.
 Yeah, if you want to talk about the very first sentence of this thing, if you don't know Shannon's theory, I can throw a few tickets on that.
 Awesome.
 Yeah, but yeah, this whole paper is founded on that underlying first principles knowledge.
 Okay.
 Yeah, so if you want, I can give you a bit, you know, sick.
 Yeah, we'll get into that.
 Yeah, we'll get into that.
 Yeah, we'll totally get into that.
 Cool.
 Everyone knows you.
 Let's go first.
 Okay.
 My name is Murillo.
 I'm one of the professors data in this band I actually met, and I would say my number is nine,
 but not because I know I want, just because every day I'm into some AI stuff,
 try to learn by myself, try to do some reading books or try to attend some kind of videos.
 And I'm sure if I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go, I go.
 And since I came here, every week I try to do something.
 That's why I was really, I did not, I'm doing a video about the video, but yeah, that's how much I am into AI.
 So your name is like, I'm that passionate about it?
 Yeah, that's it.
 Every day, every day.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 Okay, so I'm Nisam Raji, I'm the founder of this academy.
 Thank you.
 And he's 11 on 10.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I can see.
 AI is my escapism.
 You can go to 12 out of 10 because it's like the way I feel uncomfortable.
 I feel uncomfortable.
 Yeah.
 Because I'm not focused on the internet, I'm not going down.
 And before you learn that, I would rate myself seven.
 Yeah.
 So you know, I last one of the people briefly mentioned about this topic, so that's why I'm
 more motivated about it.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Cool.
 Okay, let's dive in.
 So, the issue with this setup too, is it feels like I'm the lecturer and we're participants.
 I hope that we don't do that.
 It is like, interrupt me, bring up points that, imagine we had a really big round table.
 That's really the intention of Bob today.
 Because I definitely don't want to be lecturing for an hour on this.
 Okay, so what I'm going to do is, yes, you're right, this is actually very little app layer
 stuff.
 This is going to go into the very first principles of what the heck is a vector and how do we
 get from that to all this.
 So I want to spend maybe 10 minutes, because I know a lot of you in the two to four range,
 because if we don't understand the fundamentals, we can't actually understand the paper.
 So the first 10 minutes will just be a quick crash course on the basics we need to know
 and then we'll open up the paper, right?
 Okay, so, I mean, really simply when I think about AI search, it is like I have a need for
 information.
 There's like lots of candidates of information sources I can have and it needs some way of
 scoring which matches the need, right?
 And historically what we do search is you have you match words, you try to figure out phrases,
 maybe there's like algorithmic ways to search for something based on weights.
 But with AI and Transformers, a big part of that is all of it is now based in vectors and
 how it relates to each other.
 So if I would like really put this fundamentally simply, it is we have a query for something,
 we're converting that as a vector.
 All the things, the documents, the things that we want are also vectors.
 And we're basically trying to find what matches closely to it.
 That's really the most first principles, fundamentals of this.
 So, I don't know if anyone has taken a linear algebra class, but I think a lot of people have
 taken a linear algebra class.
 Yeah.
 There is one of my favorite books.
 There is this book from Anil on how machines think.
 It's the, I think that's the name of the book.
 And it's like one of my favorite math AI books.
 He starts in the perceptron, right?
 Like the very early machine learning 1960s and then works his way up in math.
 It's one of my favorite ones.
 And a lot of that actually was my early interest in looking behind the hood, right?
 So, baseline is we're working with vectors.
 So, if you had a three dimensional space on these three coordinates, we have x, y, and z.
 And if you throw an arrow in, I'm sure all of us know, we can represent this as x, y, and z.
 And this is a vector.
 Line pointing in the direction, right?
 GPT, we're working with many dimensions.
 Many, many, many, many, many dimensions.
 So, we're just kind of simplifying it to this one.
 The second thing to understand is dot product.
 Very, very important.
 The simplest way I like to think about dot product is how similar are two concepts.
 Right?
 That's basically it.
 If I have a concept A, and I have a concept B, how similar are they?
 Right?
 So, if they're kind of here, they're similar.
 If they're here, maybe not as, you know, not similar at all.
 Right?
 Again, I'm hyper-simplifying this.
 It's a lot more complex.
 But whenever you hear dot product, or things like cosine similarity, things like that,
 it's just like, how similar are they?
 I think it's just a mental model to use.
 Look at this.
 You know, cosine, if they were exactly the same.
 Cosine, but, like, the angles.
 Yes.
 That would be one.
 Yes.
 So, it goes one.
 If it's 90, zero.
 You have no correlations.
 No problem.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 So, then we have this concept, vector embedding.
 The simplest way to put it is when we have text, objects can be.
 A lot of different things.
 If we have text, we put them through an embedding model, and we represent that text as these vectors.
 Right?
 So, GP doesn't really understand English.
 They all just understand big matrixes, right?
 So, that's what we do.
 We take these objects, and we figure out some ways to make them into these embeddings.
 Of course, we're not going to go into the very specifics.
 It's a whole, you know, tokenization.
 All those we don't want to get into.
 But, that's just the basics.
 It's a nice figure.
 Very nice figure.
 Yeah.
 It's just so clean to understand.
 And then we have, I just want to show you this video.
 One of my favorite YouTubers on the planet is 3Blue1Brown.
 He was the guy that helped me understand what the heck KQB, and like, just like, understanding
 how the key and the query and the values all come together in these big tabular formats.
 So, what I want to do is just play that first bit, so we can better understand what these
 similarities mean.
 So, how does it go from a sentence to this?
 It's like 20 or 30 seconds, but I just highly recommend this channel.
 So good.
 The first step in a transformer is to associate each token with a high-dimensional vector,
 what we call its embedding.
 Now, the most important idea I want you to have in mind is how directions in this high-dimensional
 space of all possible embeddings can correspond with semantic meaning.
 In the last chapter, we saw an example for how direction can correspond to gender, in the
 sense that adding a certain step in this space can take you from the embedding of a masculine
 noun to the embedding of the corresponding feminine noun.
 That's just one example.
 You could imagine how many other directions in this high-dimensional space could correspond
 to numerous other aspects of a word's meaning.
 The aim of a transformer is to progressively adjust these embeddings so that they don't
 merely encode an individual word, but instead they bake in some much, much richer contextual
 meaning.
 I should say up front that a lot of people find the attention mechanism, this key piece in
 a transformer.
 We'll get into attention mechanism.
 I hope you understood that.
 It's like we're taking these words and just representing them in this n-dimensional space.
 I don't know about you guys, but it's just so freaking interesting.
 The fact that, I don't know if you guys have seen this video, if you take king and remove
 something, if you take king and then add them as a feminine piece, you'll see the vector
 changes so it actually represents queen.
 I'm like, it's crazy that all of that is just math.
 And this is why I'm like, if I think about application layer exploration and I think research expert, this
 is so much more interesting.
 I'm like, there's so much to dig into and just understand artistically, like how all this
 comes about.
 And that is just to get a sense of, okay.
 If it's in a particular direction, there is a meaning and semantic attachment.
 The next thing is to understand this thing called attention.
 Again, if I were to explain this super, super simply, we have our input text.
 It's tokenized, which means it's flipped into these individual components.
 And it goes through our GPT transformer and then has an output.
 So that's kind of how GPT just fundamentally works.
 But if I were to ask, what is attention?
 It, I kind of, I just put this as like the one line.
 So it is taking information from the past tokens and helping it inform the current token
 so we can figure out what the next one is.
 And this, again, the simplest way to understand that is, you know, the more, it allows me to
 understand in a particular sentence, what pieces of information do I need to consider now?
 So I can figure out predictably what is the next token going to be.
 Right?
 So if I have more attention layers, you know, GPT, there's a bunch of attention layers.
 That just simply means it's spending more time thinking about it.
 Right?
 And it updates the vectors.
 So all of this is like still a little bit confusing.
 I think the basic thing to remember is attention is how tokens relate to each other.
 So it understands what the previous information and packs more context into the current one.
 Cool.
 Just in case, I remember now there is one amazing picture called attention is all you need.
 Yes.
 So, I mean, attention is all you need.
 It's the birth of this, all of this, right?
 And I highly, highly recognize, it literally, I mean, it is, it is where all this comes from, right?
 Yeah.
 Have you ever done an attention is all, you know, like old school?
 I can't say old school.
 That's a long time ago.
 Have you done, have you done a reading group on attention?
 Long time ago, yeah.
 Okay.
 Might be worth bringing that up at some point.
 Yeah.
 So if Google hadn't published that, the people would have gone?
 Yeah.
 Or, yeah?
 I think the industry was going in this direction.
 It was the first place, yeah.
 It would have happened at some point.
 Um, yeah.
 Okay.
 I just want to pause here.
 Any quick questions?
 Does the, again, the goal is not to get the details.
 Imagine we have a watercolor painting.
 That's all I'm looking for.
 I'm not looking for branches and the leaves in your understanding of this yet.
 But so far, are we good?
 Any questions?
 Okay.
 Cool.
 Okay.
 And then we have this thing called kidney cache.
 That's going to come up a little.
 That's basically the, the, the crux of this paper.
 And the way I just think about it very simply is, you know, this attention mechanism spends
 a lot of time looking at previous tokens and words to inform what has to come next.
 So instead of writing this every time and processing it every time, it just keeps a cache of all the different, keeps a cache.
 And the best way to think about it is this information about past tokens.
 And it just remembers that.
 So you can imagine if we work with really big, really big vectors and sizes, that cache gets really big.
 And so this entire paper today is how do we basically quantize it?
 And that's the, that's the fundamental understanding.
 It's like a very big conversation history.
 Yes.
 I think I started using GPT in one chat way too long and then it starts to slow down rapidly.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 And that's because the KB cache is growing too much.
 It's, there's just so much context.
 Yes.
 One small aspect of it is that.
 Yes.
 Um, and this is going really, really large.
 So.
 It's quadratic.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 Is that so?
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 I like searched it up cause I was like, what is the KB cache before this?
 And like KB cache was a key value cache, right?
 Right.
 But then doesn't that mean that it's like a hash map cause it's a key value pair?
 And wouldn't that mean that it's like always in constant time?
 Or like, why is it, why does it get slower to more than it gets if a key value pair you
 can just do it using the hash map and it's supposed to be constant time?
 I mean, I, my understanding of this is that, um, it just adds to the computation speed.
 Like if you have, like, KB cache is, is added part of the vector.
 So if you keep, if you have to constantly in your attention mechanisms go back, that is
 actually quite a bit to process.
 Right.
 Um, so that's kind of my understanding of it.
 Unless anyone else has a different date.
 Yeah.
 It's also because if you, let's say you never write the same thing.
 Attention is all you need.
 So if you, on each iteration of each word you're trying to understand, you go back to the
 first word, you need to do the first, the second, the third, the fourth, and the fifth.
 With cache, your cache storage is the first word because you can do one.
 So it's pretty much.
 But is that, yeah, is that what you're asking?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Did you understand what KB cache meant?
 Or were you, were you just asking why is it so big?
 Yeah, like why does it slow down?
 Why does it get, why does it get bigger in seconds?
 Right.
 I mean, I think there's the next.
 Go over, go over, go over, please.
 Go over, go over, please.
 Go over, please.
 I was going to say, this whole paper talks about the efficiency of storing the KB cache
 data in the, in the finite amount of hardware memory.
 Yeah.
 On your GPU.
 So if you have an NVIDIA graphics, you know, 5000, you know, or a blackout, you know,
 blackout GPU plugged inside your computer, it has 8 gigabytes of DDR5 memory.
 So it comes down to how much data, you know, can efficiently tram into that memory, right?
 So in order to keep your AI working quickly as fast as possible.
 We're going to talk about that in so much depth today.
 Yeah.
 Well, okay.
 So that's, that's the point of this.
 Okay.
 If I read it correctly, if I understand it correctly, you know, how to efficiently compress that data
 with the KB cache information so that as much as possible can be loaded in memory.
 Yeah.
 Relatively long.
 Yeah.
 But doesn't it conceptually mean, the more, the longer it gets, let's say sentence versus
 paragraph versus, the longer it gets, the more information to maintain the, the semantics
 of that, what's important.
 Yeah.
 So that's, isn't that why it's lower in a way?
 It's lower because of memory.
 Right.
 So KB cache, these things are stored in memory.
 And a lot of the memory is like, I need to access it fast, but memory can't, you guys
 know like, simplest analogies, like the RAM and storage, right?
 Yeah.
 And then your RAM has like, it's, it's, it's, it's to get quick.
 It's to, it's to be able to do quick operations.
 In nanoseconds.
 Yeah.
 That memory access.
 Yeah.
 For a byte of data, it might be in nanoseconds.
 Exactly.
 So when you crash, if you, if it keeps growing, the memory gets full and then it just, the
 latency starts to crash, things start to crash.
 So I would say that's one of the bottlenecks.
 It's because memory is only limited.
 The storage, which is different, and then there's memory.
 And that's one of the reasons why memory chips are gone up in price for them.
 Because as they build out more and more of these AI data centers.
 Yeah.
 They're bought, the manufacturers are switching their, their production to DRAM.
 It's high bandwidth memory.
 And so when you go to the computer store to buy memory, it's in short supply.
 Right?
 Because.
 Let's see.
 All the, all the manufacturers like BITRON technologies are making this high speed memory
 for all the AI data centers.
 Right?
 So it gets you directly on a 5D computer.
 Right?
 That's insane.
 And it hasn't changed in the last five years.
 It's like double, man.
 You can invest it in the video a few years ago.
 Yeah, you can afford it if you bought any video.
 Oh, so look at that.
 Prices for the, the kids have surged.
 Yeah.
 This is interesting.
 So it has surged three to four times.
 Yep.
 There are early 2025 lows.
 So between early 2025 and now, it surged three to four times.
 Yeah.
 This is precisely why.
 Yeah.
 I have a buddy who is buying RAM like it was Goldix.
 Yeah.
 And he's investing on that since he's selling them.
 Yeah.
 Like I said, the reason is because the manufacturers like Samsung have switched their production.
 Yeah.
 From DRAM, which is usually used for new computers, to HDMI, HDMI.
 Oh, yeah.
 We're going to talk about that too.
 That's HDMI, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Oh, this is good.
 This is actually perfect because we're going to get into it.
 I guess literally the only, this is basically setting up what you asked, which is this grows
 so quickly that the, man, it just like requires so many more computations.
 And we just need to find a way to make this cheaper and not lose accuracy.
 So that's, that's how we're going to slowly start to get into this.
 So if you have your papers, let's work it out.
 Let's, let's get into this.
 Okay.
 Actually, you know what?
 Give me a story.
 What it's been.
 Yeah.
 Let's spend some time.
 I love, Oh my God.
 I spent so much time really understanding Shannon's source point.
 But I want to spend just one or two minutes.
 What do you understand about it?
 So what I, what I was taking Tom's on.
 Right?
 You said 1980s?
 Back in the Stone Ages.
 In 1985.
 How did you see it?
 All right.
 I remember university.
 Yeah.
 My first year we did punch cards.
 Don't, don't, don't go there, man.
 So the Shannon theory.
 No problem.
 No problem.
 The way that it was explained to me was, you know, bad.
 The, the, the, the Shannon theorem was written in the 1920s.
 Uh, uh, and it, it, it, it had to do with how, how, how do you encode information.
 Right?
 As, as efficient, uh, with maximum efficiency.
 So, the, the, the basic idea was, you know, let's say you have somebody that, you know,
 something similar to Morse code.
 Right?
 And, and you guys have, so if you watch the video that I sent across, the example that
 I love that it gave is, if you had two text files, one text file.
 It's a file just with the letter A.
 Yeah.
 And you have another text file that is a bunch of random ones.
 Uh, the first text file that was going to be 7 MB.
 You can get it down to a few, the other one, the latter one, not as much.
 Yes.
 And the primary reason why is AA, it's predictable.
 The more predictable it is, the easier it is to compress something.
 Right?
 Yeah.
 So, there's, uh, oh God, there's so much we can, now, now realizing what, uh, Sam was saying.
 Yeah, in the last reading group only spent half the research, like we were filming it through
 half, so we could see.
 Yeah.
 There's so many interesting things here.
 So, okay.
 So there's a lot of math and a lot to peruse through.
 So, perhaps the way we want to get through this is, you'll notice I highlighted a few things.
 Like mean squared are a huge component of that today, we'll get into it.
 So, the, if I would explain TurboQuant in two to three, like, sentences, um, what you're
 basically doing is, you're trying to find, to get these, you're trying to get these vectors,
 and we're trying to quantize them.
 And so, what we're going to go through today is, okay, how do they actually do that?
 There's this rotation piece, there is this residual piece, uh, we'll kind of piece together
 what all those components are.
 Um, but what's interesting about this paper is, it, it takes, it's like, it takes together
 two concepts from what's already been done before.
 So, this one big quantized JL transform method was there before.
 And they're actually introducing that as a way to make sure that all of things get lost
 in, in our compression, we have some way to bring that back for that.
 So, we'll go into a lot of detail, don't worry about it too much.
 But I would say this, the, the big piece to remember in, in this, um, in this first piece
 as we're reading this is, um, yeah, we're essentially, we're essentially trying to reduce them,
 but the two ways that we figure out, okay, how good, or how effective this, this compression
 has been, is to these two things called mean square error, and inner product errors.
 Does anyone got a sense, or have a sense of, they want to explain, or they've gone through
 themselves, like what, what really a mean square error is?
 Does anyone have a chance to have a look into that?
 Want to give it a shot?
 Yeah.
 But intuitively, do we have a sense of what that means?
 Just intuitively, what is like a mean square error?
 Yeah, give it a shot, yeah.
 Like, I don't know, like in stats, because I'm taking 80 stats right now, like, when you
 do linear regression, the mean square error, it's like, because you want to square it, because
 you have, on top of the line, or on the bottom of the line, so it's just a regularized version
 of adding up all the error.
 Yeah.
 And I like to think of, yeah, if something has a really high mean square error, that means
 our original vector, and our depressed vector, are kind of not similar, right?
 And this is an analogy of the face, and the blurry faces.
 If you put it together, how similar are they?
 And the mean square error will tell us, okay, are they, like, how, how similar, dissimilar
 are they?
 Anyone have a sense of what inner product error looks like, as we're looking through?
 I'm going to give it a shot, and we're going to take a shot of next.
 Okay, so we'll go into it a little more detail.
 That whole paper's about these two things, so we'll come to it at some point.
 But I just wonder if anyone had some early, early ideas on that.
 Okay, so this actually now comes to answer your question here.
 So, as LM capabilities depend heavily on their model and size of context length, serving them
 requires substantial memory demands, and increase inference latency.
 And this is what you were talking about, HBM.
 I highlighted this, because I wanted to go down a whole rabbit hole, but I just didn't have time.
 Well, that was the whole point was something that the most difficult in the store is not
 taking pairs in the RAM cache, because you have a finite amount of memory.
 Hardware memory, right?
 Right?
 You know, like your NVIDIA GPU board, and you can buy from, you know, a panel of computers
 that includes eight or 12 gigabytes.
 Yeah.
 That's it.
 So much.
 You want to stop as much data in there as possible.
 Right?
 Yeah.
 So, what we're trying to do is, can we try to compress this while preserving the inner product?
 So, the way that I would think about preserving the inner product is, what MSC is trying to do
 is like, hey, are we, can we take this vector, and when we compress it, I'll accelerate it.
 But, inner products, I actually had a, I actually did an aerial.
 So, inner product server measures how much the similarities between, uh, the vector changes
 have the compression.
 And with mean splitter, it's just understanding, okay, if a higher MSC means the compressed vector
 change a lot more than the original, and a lower MSC just means it stays closer to the original.
 So, I would kind of think about this as distortion, so high MSC means the very, like, this just
 has moved quite a bit.
 More MSC means it's closer to the original.
 So, I'd keep these two in mind, because this is what we'll kind of look at throughout the
 entire computer, as we keep going.
 Um, okay, any other thoughts or comments if we keep going?
 Yeah, MSC and inner product are related, because A minus B squared, if you open it up,
 there is B in the entire units.
 Yes.
 Minus 2AD?
 Yes.
 So, then you have to include some levels of equivalence.
 At some point, I have the whole math for you now, because it's like, we have to get
 into the math, so we will get into that.
 Okay, I actually wanted to read this product.
 So, these models must store key value embeddings from previously generated tokens in the KB cache.
 We just talked about that, so we have some context now.
 The size of which scales with model size.
 So, if we have bigger models, that means more attention heads.
 More attention heads means higher KB cache.
 Scaling is a significant bottleneck in terms of memory usage and computational speed,
 therefore reducing the KB cache.
 So, I just look at repetition of why this is important.
 Again and again and again.
 Uh, additionally...
 I think it's very accurate.
 Any improvement in this?
 Like, you're improving the whole world, because everyone is like, using all these LLs.
 To improve by 5% means you're using 5% for everyone in the world, because KB cache is very fundamental.
 The impact is huge.
 Yeah.
 Any progress in others?
 Yeah, I can't wait to get the implementation of this stuff, because that's where this stuff
 gets a little more typical.
 Because we're still in theory land, right?
 We're still like, theoretically assessing what this looks like.
 We're getting the implementation in seconds to see, okay, to what extent...
 There's actually some experiments here at the end, that shows, okay, how much we'll be
 actually able to get a meaningful improvement in these models, or improvement in being able
 to get the right information with the compression.
 Okay.
 Um, okay.
 Uh, I wanted to highlight this.
 "Additional nearest neighbor search in high-dimensional spaces for inner product and cosine similarity
 is according to shown in vector databases."
 Uh, this is basically what I showed you earlier in that video.
 Which is, if you want to do a search, understanding the inner product and cosine similarity of those
 two vectors is how we understand, is how we pull stuff from vector databases.
 So we're still in this early, like, setting up the stage for the paper.
 We're not actually getting into much stuff yet.
 This is just, like, why it's important.
 Okay.
 And then we get into the first kind of, like, summary of what this is.
 So it's a two-stage process.
 So first, uh, we develop a vector quantizer with optimal distortion rate in terms of the
 mean-squared error.
 You're like, what the heck does that mean?
 Don't worry about it.
 We'll get into it.
 Subsequently, we apply a one-bit quantizer to the residual, resulting in an unbiased and
 low-distortion inner product quantizer.
 When I read that first, I was like, I have no idea what that means.
 Do any of you feel the same way?
 Like, what?
 No idea.
 But we'll get into it.
 Um, so this is good.
 This is where we start to explore that first half.
 So this is where they're kind of getting into this bit.
 Okay.
 So how do we do that first quantizing thing?
 Uh, before, so, uh, before we add the one that they're on.
 So our MSC optimal quantizer starts by randomly rotating d-dimensional input vectors, observing
 the key fact that each coordinates in the rotated vectors, and then follows a beta distribution.
 And then, uh, they design a Lloyd-Max quantizer for each coordinate by solving continuous
 king-age columns.
 And I feel like, what does any of that mean?
 Uh, we will, again, get into it.
 But I just wanted to, like, set up all the things before I have a whole thing on getting
 into it step-by-step.
 Um, the related work, we already went through Shannon Semmel work.
 Uh, how do people understand online versus offline?
 How do you understand?
 I've never heard of it.
 So, the way I understood it, and please correct me if anyone else has, you know, spend a lot
 more time than this.
 I actually wrote it down here.
 So, offline methods, they actually start by understanding the structure of the data before
 they do quantization.
 Um, online methods do it so a little bit more real-time.
 Yeah.
 So, online is like, uh, the speed is a big factor.
 Yes.
 Because you need to do it.
 Offline, you can, like, make it sleepy-sleep.
 Is it overnight, for example?
 Does the structure have more time for it?
 And I'd imagine it gives more accurate information.
 And that's kind of like a trade-off in this.
 Yeah.
 Uh, between the online versus offline.
 Uh, but what we're working with is primarily, I believe, like, online.
 Yeah, because you have to do it real-time.
 Exactly.
 Because you're talking to the tragedy and wanting to be able to confess real-time.
 Yes.
 Yeah, yeah.
 And then there's the last concept.
 Yeah.
 And this is where we start to get a little bit more technical.
 Uh, code books, or product quantization.
 Are those concepts?
 I guess if you've seen the video, you're a little bit more familiar with what code books are.
 Does anyone have a sense?
 I do.
 Yeah, the colors.
 Yes, yes.
 So, you know what?
 I'll actually bring that again back in when we do it from front to back.
 Versus going into it deep now.
 I just want to see if there's anything else we missed before we get into it.
 Okay, I think we're ready.
 We're ready to get into the details a little bit.
 How are we doing so far?
 Any questions before we go even deeper?
 Because now we're actually going into understanding what is this rotation around this thing?
 If it's a sphere, like, we'll go into the details, but anything before we get here?
 At least, are we having an intuitive understanding?
 It doesn't matter if we understand all the details, but intuitively?
 We're here?
 Okay.
 So, right here.
 Okay, how can I understand this step by step?
 If I take a vector, let's actually go through the process one by one.
 Uh, and then we'll pause at every step and we'll understand why does that matter.
 So, yeah.
 So, we start with a vector.
 We'll start very simple.
 Right?
 We have a 1, 0, 0.
 And then we apply this community rotation.
 Um, does anyone know why?
 Let's, like, start there.
 Like, why do we need to rotate this now?
 Yeah, why?
 Yeah, exactly.
 Does anyone have a sense of why we need to rotate this?
 Like, why?
 Why can't we just use this and continue with this initial vector?
 It's an initial vector.
 Why do we need to do this rotation piece?
 It's just like the vector data.
 So, like, where are we?
 Okay, but why is, why is it in difficulty?
 That might be different.
 Can we do it on this one?
 Yeah, it's hard to do compression when you have, like, spiky vectors in that way.
 So, so, again, my understanding of this.
 I'm coming in with 10 years of expertise in quantization.
 But in the time that I spent, I was like, okay, why do we need to do this?
 I was really breaking my head on this.
 And I think as I understood it is, if we could just quantize it accurately,
 without losing a lot of the team, what we need to be able to do is,
 it's almost like we are spreading out the spikes across, like, across a different dimension.
 So, it's just easier to start to process a lot of information.
 Because if we have this here, and we run through the mean square error,
 this stuff will be really big.
 This is the spike.
 If anything's really big, and when you run errors on it, that just gets even more.
 So, so that's what it's intuition for.
 Okay, we need that rotation.
 So, so whatever.
 Things in that we can know.
 So why specifically do we need that?
 Why specifically do we need that?
 Why specifically do we need that?
 Yes.
 Oh, these are random.
 Random.
 Yeah, so, so, yeah.
 That's a good question.
 Is it randomized or intentional?
 Yeah, it's randomized.
 If it's intentional, that means then...
 There's bias.
 Yeah, there's bias.
 There's going to be a lot of bias.
 We're adding a random notation.
 Now, this is interesting because if you have one zero zero, so then that's a concept.
 But if you do that tree rotation, can you explain this concept using other concepts?
 You know, that's one of the tree.
 So you don't give any concept of uniqueness, right?
 That's why this helps with compression.
 So you're using other axes to explain the same concept.
 Oh, okay.
 It's giving it a unique spot.
 Yeah.
 So that's where the compression helps.
 Interesting.
 Because what I was thinking about is, wait, doesn't it lose meaning after it rotates?
 I was like, what?
 And then I learned that the rotation happens orthogonally.
 So, and I was like, okay, what does that mean in this context?
 And the way they explain it is if you take a map and rotate a map, within it, everything
 still is similarly like working with each other.
 So it's still the same thing where internally, we're only taking one vector.
 But if you're looking at the vectors around it and we're rotating it, rotation is happening
 all across the board.
 And so as a result of that, it still doesn't lose its meaning to protect the other vectors
 around it.
 That's how I understood.
 There's a wave.
 There's a wave.
 But this random rotation is applied to also other vectors in that.
 So it's like, it's like the whole thing is moving together is how I understood.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 So I, it still rotates independently, but the, I would think of this as it's a, the rotational
 matrix that we're adding is the same, but the vector is very different.
 But the, for example, the instructions of how we're going to rotate is the same, but for
 every vector, because of where their vectors are, that individually will look different.
 It's, it's how, okay.
 It's, it's how, okay.
 Can I understand?
 One more time?
 One more time?
 One more time.
 So every time you do a new vector, you have a new vector.
 Correct.
 So you'll be rotating with the same randomized R that's coming in.
 Every row, every, every, every vector map is subjected to the same randomized R.
 That R is similar.
 So the same for the vector code.
 That's how I understand.
 So you're asking, I'm just trying to say intuitively.
 You're asking does the rotational, the rotation of the matrix, repeat the functional thing?
 So I understand.
 Right now we need to.
 Oh, okay.
 So I think, the reason I want to answer that yet is because I don't know, because I can use
 the word decompression that tells me that you may not look ahead with what's happening
 in the processes yet.
 So, how do we pause that, and once we get to the end step, if you're like, still like,
 pushing the air, I think it'll clarify itself five steps.
 But if not, we'll come back to it.
 Okay, first one.
 We can spend forever on this first step.
 But this rotation method was already there, apparently.
 It wasn't you in this paper.
 So let's come back.
 Johnson in response.
 You know, that's the act one, right?
 But this rotation piece is like a very common, it's like a, in vector quantization.
 It's a, it's not like a brand new concept.
 Yeah.
 Is that, what would you say?
 Polar quant.
 That was the previous one?
 Yeah, the previous one.
 What's it called?
 Polar quant.
 What's it called?
 Polar quant.
 Did you say Polar quant?
 Polar quant.
 Oh, Polar quant.
 Oh, Polar quant.
 Okay, okay, okay.
 Yes, yes, yes.
 You're saying, I use so much of the quads that every time I go to Google, it can turn on
 the robot.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 So that's kind of, I noticed that this is actually not a new concept within this paper.
 Okay.
 Well, that's step one.
 So, okay.
 Step two is now very interesting and it gets a little bit more naughty.
 So, okay.
 So we're just on the rotation.
 Now we're entering this quantizing section.
 Does anyone know why this now quantized version of y is just this number, but in positive or
 negative?
 Is there any number?
 No, we can see that.
 There's only two bits.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Yeah.
 Or in that case, I'd say, in this case, one, because the one bit is two.
 It's 2.7.
 I would say in this particular example, because we're doing a simplified version, it's one
 bit.
 Oh, one bit.
 So it's zero and one.
 So, okay.
 So to explain that, when we are quantizing, there's something called a quantizing level.
 And the best way to think about that is the number of bits we want to quantize something
 by.
 So one bit is?
 It's two.
 It's better than zero and one, right?
 So the way you know the number of bits and how many outcomes is two to the power in.
 So if we have two bits, that is four.
 But each time we add more bits, that, again, goes back to the same problem.
 We've blown things up again, right?
 So we're simplifying this.
 We're going to use one bit, zero and one.
 One bit.
 So it's basically two particular alfans.
 So in this case, we just randomly set.
 You know what?
 We'll do, we'll do, we'll quantize it.
 So we'll quantize it just by either plus 0.7 or negative 0.7.
 This you can set.
 And this is where you have, this is like, also gets into some part of the optimization
 problem.
 Which one do you think?
 We'll get to this when we get to the mean square error.
 Because that's where it all relates.
 So the way you pick this is like, hmm, what's the right number where we can try to figure
 out, okay, once we try to quantize this, for example, now 0.6.
 So we're here.
 So, okay.
 So if you're quantized to 0.7, 0.6 is closer to plus 0.6, plus 0.7.
 So we add that as 0.7.
 Negative 0.5 is closest to negative 0.7.
 That's what we have here.
 0.6 is closest to 0.7.
 Hence 0.7.
 And again, I would say the intuitive way to understand this is when you quantize something,
 the way I think about it is we have to latch it onto a grid, a fixed grid.
 And again, I think the best way to bring that up is actually this, this piece of grid.
 You guys remember this from the video?
 Okay.
 So the way I personally understood this is when we only have two colors, then everything needs
 to fit and either sort itself into this or this.
 So if you have something that's a bit more orange, it won't go into the green button.
 It would go into the orange button.
 But if we increase that to more bits and then we get to, let's say, 64, that means this
 kind of green can go closer to this kind of green and we're getting a bit more detail.
 So I think about it as like, okay, which color does this need to snap to?
 Now, when you have a one-bit thing, there's only two things to snap to.
 In this case, it's red and green.
 In this case, we can decide 0.7 or negative 0.7.
 So we need to snap to something.
 And then the thing with signs here is just positive is 1, negative is 0.
 Okay, I'll pause it.
 That actually was a good point.
 I was going to watch.
 So I know it's like, can you snap to something so that you can unsnap?
 If you unsnap back to the original space, you won't move on.
 We're not unsnapping yet.
 That's where the residual comes in and we'll talk about that.
 Yeah, that's after.
 But now we're not like on the bottom.
 Yeah.
 So once we snap this, of course there's some meaning that's lost.
 Right?
 Like I think about this photo.
 Once we snap to the red and green, we've lost some meaning, like some definition, some line.
 Like we've lost that sun.
 You know what I mean?
 So we lose certain definitions as we do this.
 But that's the point of quantizing.
 That's the whole point.
 We need to quantize it.
 And that this is the first step to that.
 Okay.
 Let's go to step three.
 And again, if you're not sure, please ask.
 If I'm not sure, we'll ask back to you today.
 Right?
 Okay.
 Well, this is like similar to what we're saying when you can get PNG to JPEG.
 Sometimes you can reduce a lot of the size.
 And the idea is that when you reduce the size of PNG to JPEG, it doesn't look very different
 to the human eye.
 So if you're able to re-quantize it, you don't know.
 Yeah.
 And think about the number of colors, right?
 Yeah.
 So we have RGB.
 Or you and I could see, you see the RGB color.
 Right?
 Yeah.
 But I guess like beyond that, like 4K, for example.
 I don't know if you just know it.
 It's like hard to actually, like 4K and under, it's a little bit hard to--
 It's like 18.
 Sometimes it's hard to tell.
 It's hard to tell.
 Yeah.
 I think similar things here.
 It's just like, okay, can we quantize it in one bit?
 But again, once we do this, we lose a lot of information.
 So where do we do that?
 So let me just recap so far.
 So number one is we have our vector.
 We rotate it in some ways so that the things that are more spiky, we even it out.
 So at the end of the day, that reduces the amount of errors that we have.
 And number two is we have that big vector and then we need to quantize it.
 The way we do that is there's a bunch of numbers.
 We need to just quantize it to either this number or this number.
 So let's say 0.6.
 What is that closest to?
 0.7 or negative 0.7?
 Closest to 0.7.
 So boom.
 That's what that would be.
 And that's how we get this vector.
 So whenever you see y-hat, that means it's basically the course for the quantize paper.
 So far, this is the compression as you choose inside the quantization.
 The other is choosing as the contrast.
 Yeah.
 I mean, to be honest, we haven't even done meaningful compression yet.
 Like, because we've lost a shit ton of information now, right?
 Like, from this to this, we've lost so much information.
 So that's the next problem to solve, is what do we do then?
 Okay.
 So that's where residual is.
 We compute what we lost.
 How do we compute what we lost?
 It's actually very simple.
 You just subtract the three vectors.
 So we have your y minus y-hat.
 So that is our residual.
 So this is the error that is now in our compression, because we've lost this information.
 Okay.
 That's step three.
 So that's the error that is now in our compression, because we've lost this information.
 Okay.
 That's step three.
 So we have your y minus y-hat.
 So that is our residual.
 So this is the error that is now in our compression, because we've lost this information.
 Okay.
 That's step three.
 That's step three.
 That's the error.
 That's the error.
 That's the error.
 That's the error that is now in our compression, because we've lost this information.
 Okay.
 That's step three.
 Okay.
 Step four.
 What do we do with the residual?
 That's kind of the...
 We're not getting into...
 Okay.
 Residual is an error.
 Correct.
 Compression.
 It's like a compression.
 Yes.
 It is the...
 It's just like what was lost.
 Yeah.
 What was lost?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's just what was lost.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's just what was lost.
 Yeah.
 Well, then the means...
 Because, for example, then the question I mean, what is the difference between the residual
 and the means for the...
 We'll get into that in a second.
 Okay.
 So the question now is, what do we do with this R that we have?
 Now, this is where it gets a ton even more complex.
 And I try my best to be like, how do I simplify this?
 I have a hard time.
 So we'll try our best.
 Okay.
 So we have our R, finally.
 Our residual.
 Negative 0.1 plus 0.2 negative 0.1.
 So what they say here is we store a ton of steps.
 By the way, there's a ten steps underneath the step four that I matched.
 Because it was getting too specific.
 But I'll explain it as soon as I can.
 So I don't know.
 Actually, do I have an analogy?
 I don't have an analogy.
 So the way to understand this particular piece and this tiny sketch is, let's say we have
 our face.
 Okay.
 We took this face that was really clear.
 We quantized it.
 Now we have a little bit of a blurry face.
 So we kind of figure out, okay, how do we now bring back information that we have
 in the middle?
 So what I would do is I would look at the residual.
 That's all the stuff that we lost.
 And I'm just going to basically extract some hints from it.
 So what that means is it might be like a line.
 It might not be the whole thing, but it might be like a line.
 It might be like a particular feature.
 And that's what that's what this is basically.
 So instead of taking the whole R, you just take bits from it.
 And that allows us to better understand that at the end of the day, what's the point of
 all this?
 What we're trying to do is when we have a new vector that's coming in and we're trying
 to do a document search, for example, we just want to say, is this kind of similar
 to this image?
 You don't really need the whole image.
 You don't really need the blurry image, but with those lines.
 So that's what this residual bit does.
 We're not including the entire thing, because then there's no point of it.
 We're just taking a small aspect of that.
 Is this still a bit?
 Yes.
 Maybe I can go more into depth.
 It's in two bits right now, right?
 That means we're only at four parts of it.
 How big sense would you have ever in four parts of it?
 No, we're still in two.
 So we're still in like zero, zero, zero, one, one bit?
 No, no, no, no.
 We're still in one bit.
 That's only zero and one.
 So there's only two parts, yes.
 What?
 Yeah, there's only two, no, no.
 We're still working in...
 All right.
 It's still one bit, but one bit has two possibilities.
 One or two.
 That's what that is.
 That I need to do it.
 I had a...
 You're not starting the error that you're just now.
 You're starting it...
 Even the error itself is starting to be contested.
 Correct.
 Yes.
 Actually, let me see.
 I had more of the...
 That's interesting.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 So I'll actually get into more of the...
 I had it right here.
 Okay.
 Because it went super into the math.
 But it does some really cool things.
 Like for example, I'll explain this one component here.
 So what this R does, or the way we get to finally, like what parts of this R they want, is this
 a really cool projection of these.
 So where they look at this vector from one point in this space, and they project it from
 a magnitude of light shining on it.
 And we're just understanding, is it going with the vector, or opposite the vector?
 That's how we get...
 That's how we get...
 Is it a plus sign, or a negative sign?
 So that's where it comes here.
 Pick a couple of random views of the vector.
 They're predicting a vector of size two into two.
 Is it also compressing a number of...
 No, no, no.
 So this doesn't convert...
 That's a representation.
 So actually, let me see if I can pick them up.
 Because I think it's important to visualize it.
 In this paper, it's only given in really complex math.
 Okay.
 And that makes it very difficult.
 So let me have to see...
 And...
 I'm just going to try my way to explain.
 So, we have this residual vector, but we can't take this whole thing.
 Because then, it's the same...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But we need to have some way of including this lost information...
 Back into our compressed quantized version.
 So that's the problem we can solve.
 The question is, okay.
 How do we get an aspect of this into our original vector?
 Because what's the larger purpose?
 We're not trying to recreate it so it looks clear.
 We're trying to recreate it so that when we have a query vector...
 It knows to search for this.
 It's like...
 I think the best way to explain it is...
 If I'm in a room of people...
 I don't need to know how the guy's nose looks.
 Right?
 Just from how tall they are...
 Or like...
 How tall they are...
 Maybe the color of their skin...
 I can be like...
 Oh!
 They're in that direction.
 And I can go there.
 Yeah.
 And sometimes, let's say, you have your skin...
 And they all have serum numbers.
 Yeah.
 Sometimes it works for just...
 Two of the last numbers...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I don't need all the details...
 To locate where it is.
 I just kind of need to know...
 Yeah.
 The guy's tall...
 You know...
 Brown skin...
 Has hair like this...
 So that's kind of what we're extracting from...
 The residual vector, right?
 That's...
 Yeah.
 That's the only way I can explain...
 Oh, okay.
 Because again, what's the main goal we're going to solve...
 Is...
 At the end of the day, we're doing this for search, right?
 So we're going to do a query search...
 And then we have to figure out...
 Can this query search even locate what's similar?
 Not exact.
 Similar.
 Do you feel...
 It's actually...
 That it's not looking for the person...
 But looking for tallness?
 So it's looking around and...
 Right.
 That's exactly it.
 If tallness is unique...
 Yeah.
 Like I'm looking for tallness...
 I don't care...
 Yes.
 Where they are...
 What they are...
 Exactly.
 But at least define the axes...
 Where that's unique.
 So if everyone is the same height, then...
 No longer...
 But if everyone is different height...
 Then you can use tallness...
 It needs to figure out...
 Something unique...
 Exactly.
 So if everyone is the same height...
 Then you can use tallness...
 It needs to figure out...
 Something unique...
 Exactly.
 So now...
 We have an analogy in mind...
 Let's try to attempt to go deeper in the map...
 And then...
 So...
 What this is doing is...
 Imagine this is an R in space...
 We pick a random view...
 So imagine this is a vector...
 So I'm taking this view...
 And imagine this is a triangle light...
 Or this is a triangle light...
 Or this is not a triangle light...
 It's a view...
 So what it's doing is...
 If I look at it from this angle...
 And I look at it...
 And I project this vector on...
 You'll notice that...
 Oh, okay...
 The only information I need is...
 Does the projection of the vector...
 Go along with the vector...
 Or go away from the vector...
 If it goes away from the vector...
 And we go...
 That means it's not as similar...
 If it goes along with the vector...
 That means...
 Oh...
 That's kind of similar...
 So I'm now going to go closer to the X...
 That's like the...
 Again...
 This step had 10 sub steps...
 And I was going through it...
 And I was like...
 Should we go down the sub step?
 And I was like...
 I don't know...
 It's too much...
 It's like a game...
 Where it says...
 Warmer or closer...
 Yeah...
 Oh...
 That's a good one...
 Yeah...
 That's exactly it...
 That's enough to find...
 Warmer or closer...
 Yeah...
 That's enough to find...
 Warmer or closer...
 Yeah...
 That's a good one...
 Yeah...
 That's exactly it...
 That's enough to find...
 Warmer...
 Yes...
 But it's not just warmer, right?
 We also have...
 Our...
 Quantized vector...
 So...
 We have our quantized vector...
 Plus a warmer and colder kind of vibe...
 Okay...
 And that allows us to be like...
 Oh...
 That's kind of all the information we need...
 To even determine that...
 Oh...
 As a query vector...
 I'm similar to that...
 Okay...
 That's all we're going to solve for...
 We don't want a perfect...
 In front of GNM...
 We don't want to do like...
 The perfect equation of a photo...
 So they're actually using it as a zero and one thing...
 So zero means...
 Negative...
 That means going away from...
 The projection of a vector...
 That's what the...
 That's what I'm saying...
 I didn't want to...
 The confusion here is...
 Wait...
 Are we reducing this to this?
 Not really...
 Okay...
 It's not a representation...
 Yes...
 All we're seeing is...
 When we project...
 Something onto this vector...
 Yeah...
 Does the projection of that vector...
 Go along with it...
 That's plus positive...
 Or go away...
 And that's a negative...
 Goes away...
 We're just focused on the projection of it...
 Okay...
 And this...
 One just means...
 With it...
 Zero means...
 Away from it...
 Guys...
 This is the...
 We're not done yet...
 Cool...
 Why don't you use the quantization...
 Are you using the vector right now?
 Oh...
 That's coming the next step...
 Okay...
 So then what do we do?
 Like okay...
 We have this residual bit...
 Now what?
 Like how does this...
 How does this now...
 Connect mathematically to...
 This...
 This quantized version we have?
 Okay...
 Here we are...
 So in step 5...
 We're basically storing...
 The one zero one...
 And one zero...
 And you're like...
 What?
 That makes no sense...
 Why aren't we storing...
 Why aren't we storing...
 Why aren't we storing this...
 Why aren't we storing this exact piece?
 Why aren't we storing any...
 The sign...
 You don't know how to find it...
 You don't know how to find it...
 One vector...
 Yeah...
 So like...
 Compressively...
 Yeah...
 One vector...
 Because I don't want to do...
 Exactly...
 So...
 So...
 So...
 In the residual vectors...
 We are considering...
 Something that's positive...
 By the way...
 We're not...
 It doesn't mean...
 We're not including this...
 We will soon include it...
 Because...
 Remember the formula...
 That we were talking about...
 I'll actually bring it up here...
 So...
 Y times Q...
 I'll actually come into this...
 In a second...
 This formula...
 Actually breaks into...
 For example...
 Y...
 So...
 R is equal to...
 Y minus Y...
 So that means...
 Y is equal to...
 R plus Y I have...
 So we actually bring back...
 All the different things...
 With substitution...
 In a moment...
 So...
 Yeah...
 Step 5...
 We're just storing...
 Because 1 and 0 here...
 Are the plus and negative signs...
 Same thing here...
 With the course...
 We're just looking for...
 Like...
 The plus and negative signs...
 Now...
 Similarity...
 Let me see...
 If I can bring up...
 Okay...
 Because...
 Because...
 What is Y?
 So Y is the original...
 Y is the original...
 Back here...
 Y is equal to R...
 I'm trying to...
 Oh is there a pen here?
 Yeah...
 Oh my god...
 Is there a pen?
 There must be...
 That would be...
 That would be...
 Yeah...
 There's a pen...
 Oh...
 Guys...
 Oh...
 Let's do this...
 Okay...
 Okay...
 Awesome...
 Okay...
 So...
 This is my thought...
 I wish I'd have used this before...
 I was trying to do...
 Okay...
 So...
 We know...
 Our...
 R...
 Is equal to...
 Y...
 Minus...
 Y...
 Half...
 So...
 If you want to compute...
 Similarity...
 We have...
 Y...
 Times...
 Q...
 Is basically...
 A query vector...
 So...
 A query vector...
 So...
 This Y...
 You can replace it with...
 Y...
 Y...
 Like...
 So...
 Yeah...
 It depends on Y...
 So...
 I replace that here...
 And then...
 R...
 Y...
 Half...
 So...
 Original...
 It's the goal...
 Yes...
 Approximately...
 Um...
 And so...
 That's the course core...
 So yeah...
 Now we're computing...
 The similarity...
 So yeah...
 So once we actually...
 So once we...
 Uh...
 Actually open that up...
 Oh...
 You can see...
 We're actually already...
 Including...
 A residual vector here...
 So when you actually...
 So once you...
 Once you have that score...
 The final one is...
 We're looking at...
 Okay...
 We've got a query vector...
 If we're now...
 Timesing that...
 Our...
 Our...
 Course vector...
 Which is basically...
 What we've quantized...
 You realize...
 Okay...
 It's about a 35%...
 Wait...
 I'm...
 Okay...
 So in set 7...
 You're showing...
 Multiplication...
 But in set 6...
 You said...
 There's like a...
 Addition...
 Yeah...
 That's what this is...
 Right?
 And that's what we have here...
 So this is our...
 So this is our...
 Core score...
 Yeah...
 This is our...
 Core score...
 Probably pause here...
 Cause now we're going...
 A little bit tricky...
 And we'll summarize it...
 So like...
 It doesn't matter...
 It doesn't matter...
 It doesn't matter...
 That's how...
 That's right...
 That's how they got...
 From y times 2...
 And so now we can check...
 Okay...
 So...
 So...
 Really the bottom line...
 To all of this...
 Is this...
 Like if I were to like...
 Summarize everything...
 Anyone ask it?
 Yeah...
 Yeah...
 Because...
 Step 7...
 Oh...
 I just think this is a terrible similarity score...
 Okay...
 Oh yeah...
 Given our vectors...
 This is a terrible vector...
 Like...
 This is just terrible...
 Like...
 Similarity score...
 Um...
 But...
 Baseline...
 So...
 We need to know...
 Uh...
 So...
 Does the query behave the same way...
 As the error...
 In those views...
 Uh...
 So we talked about...
 Okay...
 Once we have a query...
 And then once we have the different views...
 On which we project onto the R...
 Uh...
 The visual vector...
 It's like...
 Okay...
 If...
 If it's a higher similarity...
 That means...
 And if it's similar...
 That means we have a small similarity...
 So to summarize...
 All this...
 We can read that...
 So the query is a new vector...
 What we're comparing against...
 The residual bits...
 Are tiny bits...
 About what the core...
 Spectre got wrong...
 So the foreign image...
 Go wrong...
 And then we check...
 Whether the query...
 Lines up...
 With those hints...
 That's where the similarity comes in...
 If it does...
 Then we nudge the similarity up...
 If not...
 We nudge it down...
 That's basically...
 This whole...
 Uh...
 But we skipped...
 So much of the...
 Yeah...
 I'm actually...
 We're curious...
 So...
 I must have...
 Competed something...
 To get correction zero...
 Oh...
 This means...
 Maybe that...
 We were going...
 435...
 Yeah...
 This I don't understand...
 I guess for this...
 Specific problem...
 There was no need to correct...
 Yeah...
 There was no much...
 Very little...
 To...
 Correct...
 Yeah...
 Okay...
 I want to pause here...
 That was a lot...
 That was a lot...
 As I mentioned...
 We're just a very dense...
 Mathematical paper...
 So if you're like...
 Two now...
 You're like...
 It doesn't make any sense...
 Again...
 I just want to redo...
 Clarity...
 Yes...
 In this new space...
 We want to find all the ways...
 Yes...
 It's like...
 I mean...
 At the end of the day...
 Once...
 The whole point of AI search is...
 I have a query vector...
 If I've now...
 Quantized my goal vector...
 How do I make sure that...
 I can still search for it accurately...
 Okay...
 And so we want to...
 Quantize it without...
 No...
 But still keeping...
 Somewhat of the...
 The...
 Important parts...
 To allow us to identify it...
 What that is...
 The goal similarities...
 No...
 We want to get a higher...
 No there's...
 What do you mean goal similarities...
 Yeah...
 It's a between...
 It's a yeah...
 I would say...
 Between...
 If it's one...
 That means it's like...
 Bang off...
 And the similarities...
 Based on that question...
 Right?
 Because...
 You have a word...
 You want to see how similar...
 Other words...
 And you want to maintain...
 That similarity...
 Which specific case...
 Does it matter...
 Which kind of data...
 Which kind of data...
 Does this change...
 You mean like...
 From the text...
 Or...
 I mean...
 At the end of the day...
 All objects are transferred...
 Into tokens...
 That are still vectors...
 So I don't know...
 If...
 This will be different...
 When it comes to...
 If I'm using text...
 Or...
 Something that's not text...
 Um...
 Yeah...
 They're all tokens...
 But...
 This is the final result...
 Because...
 Maybe...
 Some kind of...
 Data types...
 You have like a better...
 A better...
 New lab...
 Oh yeah...
 It depends...
 I guess...
 Complexity of the problem...
 Yeah...
 If a problem is not that complex...
 Maybe easy...
 And this comes back to where Shannon speaks...
 Yeah...
 Right?
 Like it's...
 If it is...
 A super complex...
 Vector...
 Like embeddings...
 Where it's like...
 Everything is...
 Very unpredictable...
 Then our ability to...
 Compress...
 Actually...
 That actually comes to our insights...
 In a second...
 But yeah...
 That actually...
 Is a small component of it...
 That's what I find that very smart...
 Is that cross-direction thing...
 There is so much...
 Okay...
 Because...
 I'm sure...
 We only...
 Have the course for...
 But we thought about...
 Okay...
 You can even include...
 Direction...
 That's very interesting...
 It's like...
 It's like...
 I have...
 The blurry picture...
 And I have the footnotes...
 Yeah...
 The footnotes...
 That's what it is...
 I have the footnotes for...
 The things that still describe the picture...
 And that footnote...
 Is just one bit...
 Yeah...
 That's the whole...
 Innovation of this...
 Right?
 That's the visual truth...
 We want to do it...
 Like...
 Can you get...
 Like...
 The footnotes...
 The footnotes...
 So...
 So...
 This actually...
 This actually is a good...
 Quick separate...
 Because...
 Then we went into...
 The experiments...
 And I was like...
 Okay...
 When we read experiments...
 What do we really need to understand?
 Like...
 What are the questions...
 We have asked...
 Before we get into it?
 It's like...
 Okay...
 What's the metric...
 Implement meaningful...
 Which means...
 Will we be able to get...
 A drastic amount of compression...
 And still be successful...
 In...
 A similarity...
 Or like...
 Finding the...
 The query...
 We'll talk about that...
 So I'm like...
 What's the trade up there?
 And then finally...
 Ken is actually working the real world...
 We have actually...
 Very good questions...
 We have like...
 Primary questions...
 To anyone...
 Who is like...
 AI automation...
 We have a primary question...
 Like...
 What's the point...
 Like...
 We did a fancy...
 Theoretical paper...
 Okay...
 So what's the metric being optimized for?
 Now let's actually go to the paper...
 Um...
 Yeah...
 I basically skipped all of two...
 Because...
 It's just math...
 I tried my best to understand this...
 And...
 It was a mess...
 It makes me...
 It gave me a lot of appreciation...
 For people that do this...
 For time...
 And actually come up with a math...
 And here I'm like...
 Quad coding...
 And I'm like...
 Oh man...
 The research stuff...
 Is so complex...
 And there's so much more to do with it...
 Yeah...
 Like...
 This is when I'm like...
 When we look at...
 Quad applications...
 And we write code...
 And we just use agents now...
 And I'm like...
 Man...
 There's research stuff behind this...
 It's just insane...
 And I have so much...
 Because I'm always...
 Doing this just gave me...
 So much more appreciation...
 For what happened...
 When we get ready...
 And we're going to look at...
 Okay...
 So let's go into our experiments...
 We look into...
 We actually went through all of this...
 By the way...
 All of what we talked about...
 Was this one paragraph...
 From the last 20 minutes...
 So if you guys want to just...
 Do this now...
 So...
 To address this bias...
 And what the bias basically means...
 Is...
 When it's quantized...
 This bias...
 We propose a solution...
 That combines...
 TurboQuant MSE...
 With an instance of...
 2JL...
 Which is the one bit...
 You know we just did...
 So...
 Specifically let...
 Q...
 MSE...
 Be the quantization map...
 corresponding to...
 The quantization map...
 With a bit width...
 Of...
 If you're curious about...
 What this means...
 It means...
 We put all the bits...
 We...
 All the bits that we have...
 We focus it on...
 The initial part...
 Of this quantization...
 And the one bit...
 That's remaining...
 We put it in...
 We use the...
 QG01...
 So hence...
 They have...
 So it's...
 And then...
 The quantization...
 What's the...
 Yeah...
 The quantization map...
 I don't know...
 I don't know...
 So for x...
 That is included...
 Actually...
 I don't know...
 We use the bits...
 For any x...
 The visual vector...
 Defined as r...
 As a small...
 You can then apply...
 This quantization map...
 Which is what we did...
 The array...
 That we talked about...
 On this...
 The visual vector...
 Resulting...
 This is all...
 What we did...
 Basically...
 So if you...
 Very obviously...
 It's like a randomize...
 If you are...
 While...
 It is the...
 Oh...
 That's the question...
 I would say...
 I would say...
 That would be...
 I'm not sure...
 Let's find that information...
 So QMSC...
 It's like...
 You have a query...
 You have a...
 You have a vector...
 For MSC...
 You have a vector for QGL...
 I actually don't know...
 Exactly this...
 I think it might be that...
 This is mapped...
 On this...
 The visual vector...
 I think this actually might be...
 The...
 Yeah...
 The 0-1...
 Like for example...
 The bits...
 The number of bits...
 That we put in the coordinate...
 I think...
 This might be that...
 Oh...
 Okay...
 So Q is go...
 It's the random...
 Rotation...
 You have a random rotation...
 That's a random rotation...
 We have a Q...
 Which is the quantization...
 The grid...
 That we talked about...
 I think that's what this means...
 The quantization map...
 On this...
 That's what I think...
 This means...
 It's a vector...
 It's a vector...
 Everything...
 So...
 Would you expect it to be something else?
 Like...
 0-1...
 I think it's a little vector...
 Like a...
 And so...
 Anything that is represented in that...
 It's...
 It's still...
 You have 0...
 Something...
 It's a little vector...
 I think that's good...
 Yeah...
 So the JL is like...
 Projecting it into a smaller...
 Using this random...
 I'm just going to double check this...
 But maybe I'll come back to it...
 Because I don't understand too much...
 That already...
 Yeah...
 That's what it is...
 Even I...
 I just...
 What QJL is doing here...
 You have a vector...
 In high dimensions...
 Yeah...
 And QJL...
 Projects it into a lower dimensional space...
 While preserving distances...
 So I think the...
 Randomized algorithm...
 In...
 So...
 It's just a random...
 Very easy...
 Right?
 It takes like...
 Five pages of...
 Proving it...
 That actually works...
 That's pretty neat...
 So...
 Yeah...
 Let's say I have a question...
 Are they doing this for...
 Every...
 Or...
 Just like...
 For every token...
 Every token...
 Yeah...
 So...
 Actually...
 I mean...
 This is for...
 So...
 When did we do this...
 I would say this is for...
 That's a good question...
 When does it happen...
 Does it happen...
 Does it happen...
 At the end of every...
 Attention...
 I actually don't know...
 Cause...
 Online...
 It's online...
 Maybe it happens...
 Right?
 Yeah...
 So...
 When does this exactly...
 Can you look it up actually?
 Let me...
 I have it right here...
 So...
 Actually...
 I have it right here...
 So...
 Actually...
 I have it right here...
 I can...
 I have it right here...
 So...
 Actually...
 I have it right here...
 Uh...
 I can...
 Uh...
 By the way, I use something called Heptabase to do all my research paperwork. So at what point is this process applied in the mix? Is it after every token?
 It has to, right? Because every time you have a new token, the similarity changes. Everything changes. That's why this is one of the most efficient ideas.
 So I asked the follow-up here. Oh, you already did?
 No. This is not applied after everything.
 So then when is it applied? We'll give you the next answer.
 When is it applied? It is applied at the moment you want to compress or approximate vectors.
 For example, during a banking compilation, when storing or retrieving KVCAD, then approximate an inner product.
 During modern conversion, to reduce memory, bandwidth...
 Can I be prompt? It's not every token, but every time.
 Yeah, every moment you want to...
 I mean, that's the whole point of KVCAD.
 It's kind of KVCAD, I don't have to...
 Yeah, yeah.
 But I guess it's...
 I don't actually...
 I don't know if that's still not related yet.
 But that's supposed to at least be stored somewhere.
 So...
 So only when you do the query, it does that?
 That actually makes a little bit of sense to me.
 Isn't that actually a part of what other things is imported from?
 Yeah.
 You know what?
 These are freaking fantastic questions.
 People are like, yeah, when should...
 When does this?
 Okay, short answer...
 Oh, this one says yes.
 Wait, what?
 Am I reading the wrong?
 Wait, let's see this.
 Short answer, yes.
 In order to request a generation, the model runs the forward pass loop and attempt to step-by-step and repeats the process once per generated token.
 After selecting a token, the current token forms a query and attempts also a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the second token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 ...the third token forms a loop on...
 What position did it?
 Yes, we're happy.
 I feel like the full position is actually one way.
 I want to be more efficient than the full position.
 Yeah, actually that's a good point. I actually want to know what the full workman did.
 Can you ask me a little bit?
 Yeah, a little bit slow to learn about it.
 What is the full position comparison to in the needle and the bootstrap?
 Yeah, it is.
 Is that full position, does that mean I'm not in the best?
 No compression.
 Are you sure?
 Yeah.
 Is that what full position did be?
 Yeah.
 Or is it just the meaning of another one of the quantization?
 No, it's the one that's with no compression.
 Yeah.
 Because they want to show the other full compression or they want to also show the other one.
 Okay, great, good.
 Okay, so then I got my own channel up on.
 Because I thought this was just like another.
 So I was like, oh, okay.
 That's why.
 It was just another.
 But you're right.
 It wouldn't make sense.
 Why would they include another one?
 And why would they say that they were like really above the best?
 So full precision is saying this is the model's full.
 Yeah, even if that's when they catch them.
 See the same exact performance.
 Uncompressed baseline.
 Yeah, but the uncompressed baseline doesn't say that it's full precision.
 It's the baseline run with no.
 Okay, so you are correct.
 You are correct.
 To be catch, the model evaluated the standard coding point position.
 Use as a reference script.
 So this is basically saying it is performing basically exactly as good as the full precision.
 Because we're encoding things in like one bit versus like 16 bits in a whole.
 Okay, I feel like those are the big thing here.
 We went a bit into the GPU performance.
 So that's maybe what I'll bring up real quick.
 Right here.
 So this was run on the Nvidia A100.
 I actually wrote it down here.
 There were some of the things that we prepared.
 But from what I saw in the paper, I just want to recall what I remember.
 So we evaluated two point-upers and methods.
 The method here.
 I think from what I understand, they were able to run it on this TPU.
 And we were able to successfully get the metrics that we talked about here.
 And the whole point that, oh, actually this you can actually apply in a TPU.
 The last question I think that came to my mind.
 And we'll close here.
 Okay, what would it take to bring it to the real world?
 And I thought we've gone through this.
 What do you guys think are the biggest challenges following next?
 For those that you actually work on.
 That's actually my question.
 Why don't we just apply this over there?
 Yeah, so I actually asked this question.
 I'm curious what you guys, just from doing this so far.
 If you're just thinking from ourselves, like our perspective.
 What would be the biggest roadblocks in actually implementing it like tomorrow?
 For both places.
 Yeah, like implementing this QD cache mechanism.
 What would be the hardest of this?
 I think it's convincing.
 Because it's just a random method.
 Yeah.
 Like it turns up implementation as well.
 They also have this kind of thing.
 I would say yes.
 Yeah.
 But there's actually a few that was actually quite surprising to me.
 I asked if it would be key on my way here.
 Anyone else want to have guesses?
 But before I pull this up?
 I'm not trying to say we can keep saying that it's a method that's not a certain thing.
 Yeah.
 That's exactly.
 Yeah.
 I can give a comment.
 Yeah.
 But here's my comment.
 Maybe I can give a comment just before I know.
 Maybe before I show you the answer.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So, because here we see that perfect storm.
 But this is not a representation of the real world.
 Maybe we can find the real world.
 You can find the real world.
 I guess the point.
 I'm almost like, oh, what's at a harder level?
 Maybe this is because we didn't work with that thing.
 I wonder if it's that.
 You're the answer is that it came out, actually.
 HTML bandwidth remains the full volume.
 Okay.
 Low bit storage only helps in deep quantization.
 It's used in layout works.
 So, the way I understood it is that GPUs are structured a particular way to do particular
 processing for particular bits.
 And that shifts locked in.
 Yeah, that's a good one.
 And to redo some of the mathematical architecture for how the GPUs work to make that happen,
 is more difficult.
 That means the engineering in the way we, like the CUDA engineering in the way we do it,
 needs to change for this to work.
 What am I talking about?
 I still don't know what it said.
 It says it's operationally output.
 And I'm like, okay, I don't want to pull in and share that news yet.
 It says kernel winds do not automatically become certain winds.
 So, what I heard, I understand that is, it's the output.
 It's just locked in, is what we're hearing.
 Yeah, that's a good one.
 And to redo some of the mathematical architecture for how the GPUs work, to make that happen,
 is more difficult.
 That means the engineering in the way we, like the CUDA engineering in
 where we do it, needs to change for this to work.
 What am I talking about?
 What am I talking about?
 I still don't understand.
 It says it's operationally output.
 And I'm like, okay, I don't want to pull in and share that news yet.
 It says kernel winds do not automatically become certain winds.
 So, what I heard, understand this as, is when we're doing inference at that large of a scale,
 we might see like localized efficiency, but when we're doing it at a scale, it might not work.
 Yeah, this is the thing, yeah, because it shows like maybe the toy problem,
 but maybe in a real world.
 Yeah, but sometimes it's like, what?
 Like, what is it about the real world?
 I wasn't able to get to that point.
 I spent too much time in the math and I was like, oh shit, I forgot the real world understanding.
 Like, wait, why can't we do this yet?
 Yeah, I think we could spend a lot more time on this, but I think this is a good time.
 How are you feeling?
 That was a lot.
 Our brains probably know.
 I think, I think what I hope, if you don't remember any of this, I think, I just hope
 you have a bit more bits in your brain about vectors.
 And just how, at least now when you look at AI, you will now have a visual thing
 of like vectors moving around to make things happen.
 Even though, like practically, what will you do with this information?
 I don't know how much you will apply it.
 Well, they do it a lot in like, when you go to that target thing, that's where the models
 are, where the models live.
 Right?
 They have a lot of front-time versions of many different models.
 Yes.
 And, I'll say this out.
 And they can put in your computer, for example.
 And, so they actually did this for the Quinn.
 Yeah.
 They were...
 Oh wait, wow.
 Edge computing could become more possible.
 Oh, that's a good point.
 Yeah.
 When it's for local processing.
 Yeah.
 So maybe, if I were to do this, and if I had infinite a ton, I would load like a local
 search model, like an open source local model, and I would see if I could implement this.
 Quantize the hell out of it, and then you maintain information, then...
 That's actually a really good point.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Because the way the future's going is more local, right?
 Yeah.
 Can you bring these big models, and you don't have the brand in our computer to go to process
 all this, so...
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Oh, you know the other piece they...
 It's not privacy.
 They don't have to do the big models.
 Yeah.
 The last question is, how do we bring agents into this?
 Any ideas?
 Yeah.
 And that's actually, that's actually where I was like, oh, that's actually very interesting.
 You guys have...
 Yeah, but...
 How could we use agents to be more efficient, even in this whole prairie process?
 Has anything come to mind?
 Because right now, if you have to search for something, it's like, we're doing a search,
 but there isn't much that's happening.
 For example, a search isn't just a search.
 There's ways you can search for information, so that we're getting AI more.
 Does that make sense?
 Yeah, so there's this agent that's search, right?
 Yes.
 Like, you have a lot of contacts, like emails, calendar, and all that.
 And you efficiently get the most relevant.
 Yeah, and have the most...
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 And have the most accurate prompt.
 Because to develop the prompt, you can work by an agentic systems that can understand how things work.
 Then we can actually do, like, iteration loops.
 Maybe the first one, we're not getting the right answer.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Then agents can learn, how do we have the right kind of query to get the right kind of answer?
 So that's, like, the other, like, option.
 Ooh, there's actually lots of opportunity for using agents to make this.
 Yeah.
 And contact all of these tests to agents.
 Right.
 And just give in better, like, it will help optimize the, optimize a lot more.
 And I thought that was really interesting.
 Um, okay.
 I think that's a good, good place to pause.
 Any last, any last thoughts or anything else to share before we close?
 This is a very difficult one to do.
 I'm not going to lie.
 This is, uh, yeah.
 Do you want to host it?
 No.
 I, I, I...
 Anyone, by the way, you should know, we...
 No.
 No.
 No.
 No.
 No.
 No.
 No.
 I think you guys should host it.
 But by the way, this is just my plug for this, for this book.
 It is, like, I'm reading this right now.
 And if anyone wants to start to approach AI for parts, and, like, and just getting really
 great grace about, about the math, I love this book.
 It goes from, if you have no knowledge in math, it would go from zero all the way up
 to the next one.
 It would go from, like, one, so, so, one, so.
 Yeah.
 You know, at one point, I'm like, what's that, and I was asking myself.
 Did I, if I, if I spend a lot of time, do I spend more time in the theory?
 Do I spend more time in application?
 Do I spend more time in the quad time?
 Do I spend more time in the coding stuff?
 Or do I spend more time in the research aspect?
 I'm serious.
 How do you think about that?
 I can't think of a good one.
 I can't think of a good one.
 I can't think of a good one.
 Yeah.
 Because the thing is, like, when you do a bit of research, like, the theory, you understand
 that the secret limitations, the application.
 If you know that things cannot be better than that, we have no idea.
 And now we think about how do we improve model performance.
 I'm like, oh, yeah, you can do it.
 I was like, oh, there's this thing called KD casting.
 I know that's bottleneck.
 There's, like, I have a whole new node that didn't know, how am I going to apply this?
 I don't know.
 I might want to do my own, like, local model and see if I can implement this.
 So that's going to ruin my attention as well.
 Yeah.
 So that's the one I've done in your mind.
 I'm going to upload this PDF to your platform, so it's an optimized base and inspired by your
 algorithm.
 Yes.
 And that's codex to it.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 So the next thing I want to do, actually, this is Sapir.
 Sapir and I are extremely curious about this, is we're both biology nuts.
 And our next topic I'd love to host at some point is how we can use things like AI to develop mRNA vaccines.
 What does that process look like?
 Right?
 And I was just sharing, I was just sharing before you came.
 It's actually not that complicated than most people think.
 There's this platform called OpenVax.
 You just heard a story about that dog on Twitter.
 About how this guy was able to create an mRNA vaccine for his dog.
 Using chat CPT and alcohol.
 And of course, like, in association with some professors, because he needed professors to formulate the bio.
 But he did all that literally just...
 He had a lab.
 He can't actually...
 Yeah, but to design the mRNA vaccine, he did not need that.
 He just could use codex.
 Okay.
 So, wouldn't I ever be interested in that?
 Like, looking at biology?
 Yeah.
 Understanding proteins, understanding, you know, cancer tumors, and...
 That actually, you know, over this, that is my personal area of interest.
 Like, I'll just show you here.
 I spent a lot of time trying to understand, like, how vaccines are made, and how do we do this?
 How do we use the effort?
 I think in the next two years, yes, there's this one area which is, like, AI and agents.
 So, the next year is a year of biology.
 And...
 And...
 And they use that and then...
 Yeah.
 To do this work even better.
 You can do it.
 That's like an enablement.
 It's like an enablement.
 It's like an enablement as well.
 Basically, they're going to talk about the agents, especially that.
 Particularly to use a separate body.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Oh, that's actually an interesting one.
 Yeah.
 And get a much better...
 Yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 That's the idea.
 We have some...
 I was gonna...
 We have some applications where we don't use...
 We have...
 We have signaling.
 We want...
 We think of it more as a log.
 So, you're signaling, but what's the...
 What's the objects?
 Is it like...
 What's the object we're putting on a different piece of the records?
 It's just signaling the application of energy.
 Okay.
 That's it.
 Guys, that's the thing.
 Sorry if you guys know.
 There's no, like, hierarchy of, like, who gets...
 If you have interesting ideas, like, I want to present this paper.
 Oh, yeah.
 Yeah, yeah.
 It's not like I'm a deep expert, and I'm like, I'm here to teach.
 No, it's like, I just like...
 I use this as just an excuse for me to learn, and then we get to share and learn with each other.
 And if you're like, this paper's awesome, I'd love to discuss this with everybody,
 and you can use it as a forcing function to learn yourself, please message it.
 It's a very good forcing function.
 Yeah, and then people...
 Yeah.
 It would be interesting to know what are your roadblocks in biology.
 Oh.
 I have infinite pieces.
 As part of your paper.
 Yeah.
 But, would this be an interest?
 Would...
 Oh, yeah.
 Okay, cool.
 So we'll do one, maybe two or four weeks from now.
 Sure.
 I'll host one of these, and...
 Oh, then we can get volume nerdy.
 Yeah.
 Oh, that's gonna be a difficult one to finish in an hour.
 Okay, so interesting to, like, biology and chemical reactions.
 Anyone here...
 You do chemical engineering.
 Anyone else...
 I know you do...
 You guys don't answer the question.
 But for anyone else in the bio, just, like, out of curiosity, do you do bio?
 Okay.
 I work with Genomic Labs.
 Oh, shoot.
 You work at Genomic Labs?
 You work with Genomic Labs.
 You work with Genomic Labs?
 I don't know anything about it.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, so you build workforce solutions for Genomic Labs?
 Okay, anyone else do bio stuff or are you interested in...
 This will be me having you join my bio cult.
 I think we need more people into biology.
 I think when we were young, we learned biology was mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell,
 and then that's basically the extent of it.
 And I think if we spend more time understanding this...
 Oh, that's sick.
 We can achieve immortality.
 Yeah, we can be like Brian Johnson and live forever, right?
 Find a way to...
 Don't die.
 That would be awesome.
 And a drug that makes us immortal.
 Alright, thanks everybody.
 This is awesome.
 This is very good.
 So interesting.
 What?
 You're working at some time.
 What?
 You're working at some time?
 No, I just locked the whole meeting.
 And then using the LLM to translate into the meeting role.
 How did you go?
 How did you go?
 What?
 So that's the meeting role.
 Yeah.
 And that is the...
 What's the transcriber that you used?
 Sorry?
 Which transcriber did you use?
 Do you have like a...
 I built my own.
 Oh shit, what the hell?
 So...
 This is the...
 The...
 The...
 You're insane.
 It's still prototype.
 It's still prototype.
 It's still prototype.
 So...
 I'm still working on it.
 Dude, it's fucking insane.
 What the hell?
 What the hell?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 What the hell?
 What the hell?
 the line transcribe and polish transcribe. Then there's a topic. So when the guy keeps saying, the percentile keeps saying, they keep transcribing and then I can watch what he's talking about and then what's the topic about it. But it's still a prototype. I'm still working on it. Dude, it's fucking insane. What the heck?
