 24 hours per week, and this is one week.
 In fact, you can see this as a compression of the ability
 to react in six weeks in one week.
 And it's compressing things these days
 due to time constraints.
 OK, so yes, one week starts today.
 And then we will have demo day next week on Saturday,
 where people can present their apps here in this same room.
 And it's about creating your own open block.
 So people who are facilitating, there's me, Bishan Raji,
 and there's Paul right here.
 There you go.
 And thanks to our sponsors.
 Well, one sponsor is the North Pacific Rescue,
 which gives us this space for free, which is really nice.
 Although, after a month, they will ask us to buy insurance.
 It's someone who finds some great sites.
 And we also have two sponsors.
 There's Illuminate Universe, which
 is going to be sponsoring some prizes.
 And there's also Young Town Dental Boutique in Claire.
 It works-- it's a very nice dental boutique.
 It's like a dental spa.
 Very cool.
 And she's sponsoring the buildings,
 which is really nice.
 And she's also sponsoring some gift cards.
 There's some gift cards right there
 for anyone who wants to save some costs for their teeth
 cleaning or teeth enhancements.
 And also, there will be prizes from-- also
 from Young Town Dental Boutique, a $300 prize.
 There will be a lot of prizes for the winners.
 And if you haven't done so already,
 please join the Discord, because that's
 where all the communication is happening.
 And throughout the week, it's mostly going to be online.
 So I want the support to be online and sharing your work.
 The first intro to robots--
 does anyone know that robots--
 the word robots started from 1920, right?
 Weeks here.
 So the word robot comes from the Czech word robota, which
 means forced labor and servitude.
 It started as a playwright, like a theater play.
 And we don't know the word Czech Republic.
 It's next to Germany, Austria, and Poland.
 And Poland as well, because you're a neighbor.
 And the idea is to showcase how having something like robots
 can do human labor at scale very efficiently.
 It spread really quickly through Europe
 when that day came up.
 It's funny, because the critics of the theater,
 they were pretty harsh on the theater play,
 but people really loved this.
 Loved it in the sense they were very interested
 about the concept.
 And a lot of it was driven by fear,
 because it shows that humans can be replaced by machines.
 So all this fear about AI replacing us started from 1920.
 Fear would never go away.
 OK, after that, the actual real robot
 that started autonomous robot was 1948.
 This LC, the torch voice.
 And it had a very simple task.
 All it did was it can move around, and all it needs--
 all it does is it can see light and goes towards it.
 So if you're in a spot in a cave and you have this torch voice,
 it can guide you maybe through the light at the end
 of the tunnel, as they say.
 And it had some nice functionality.
 It wasn't very sophisticated, because it was the first one.
 And it can avoid obstacles.
 The good thing is like Roomba, the vacuum in your home.
 It can go back and recharge whenever it needs batteries.
 OK, so personal assistants are very, very important.
 I'm not sure how many people here watched Star Wars,
 but we saw how useful they were in Star Wars.
 There's these two very popular bots or agents, C-3PO and R2D2
 from 1977 Star Wars movie.
 And they did two things.
 So C-3PO mostly talks.
 So it was good with language communication.
 It was like an interface to humans.
 And R2D2, well, it didn't do much talking.
 It was just like people.
 That's all it does, basically.
 But it does incredible things.
 It can hack, it can repair, it can execute all the tasks
 and so on.
 Very cool.
 So when they did Star Wars, well, they did a lot of things.
 Like they hacked doors.
 They fixed all ships.
 So you can imagine fixing ships is like fixing your food.
 And they did a lot of support, negotiating with allies.
 They were very, very useful.
 Of course, but there's human and noobs that didn't replace,
 for example, Luke, right?
 They didn't replace the humans in Star Wars, the Jedi's.
 That's not human and noobs.
 Even if there's powerful agents, AI bots like these,
 they still need humans.
 OK.
 So right now we are at the age of personal assistants,
 an age that can do personal assistant.
 It started really, really big with OpenCon
 because it was a very nice, what we call orchestration layer
 of all the capabilities with AI models,
 LLMs, like large language models.
 Put them all together so it can do tasks for you.
 So now we are at the age of building
 your own personal assistant.
 The reason why right now it's becoming more and more popular
 is because LLMs, or large language models,
 are strong enough.
 Foundation of these agents is strong enough
 to do tasks for you.
 So it all started from like CHA-GPT, November 30, 2022.
 At the beginning, it wasn't the best.
 But over time, people saw the potential.
 They trained many models, and they made it very strong.
 So you can ask them many different questions,
 like explain AI by emails, feedback code,
 and it can give you a lot of the face
 of all these personal assistants.
 You can imagine the CHA-GPT of these two
 agents from Star Wars, the foundation, their brain.
 OK.
 So AI evolution started, I would say,
 from 2022, these strong questions answering bots.
 So in 2022, we had mostly just answering questions
 and then over time, towards 2025,
 they're able to suggest different follow ups
 or solutions.
 Now, they're even able to plan.
 So if you give them a very big emissions task,
 they can break it down and plan it and achieve the task.
 Then you can execute each step.
 If you use bot code, you will see it breaks down your tasks.
 Then it does each step, execution each step one by one
 until they can choose the goal.
 And then you can also monitor it down.
 So we went from like chatbot to agents.
 And basically, the main difference is that agents can act.
 They can execute things.
 So the goal of this hackathon is to create
 your own personal assistant.
 So you have ambitious tasks or high level tasks.
 I find my meeting with Bob.
 I try to make slides.
 And to Bob, he just asks for so many different tasks
 that the AI assistants can go through the meeting notes
 and do web search for you.
 And then he can create slides for you
 and then sends it to Bob.
 Very cool.
 So this is the idea of this hackathon is to build something
 like this, not necessarily about after meeting summarization,
 but it could be anything.
 Ideally, it's something you care about,
 where you want the analysis.
 So we can see OpenClaw as a personal assistant-agent
 harness.
 We call this a harness.
 Harness is like everything around the LLM,
 like connecting with the services, the tools, the data,
 like Gmail, Calendar, Notion, sending to Telegram, emails,
 all of that around it.
 And it's called a harness.
 And it kind of made it alive by Peter Steinberger, who
 the way he started is he wanted to create
 his own personal assistant for fun.
 He didn't think it would blow up.
 And then it just exploded.
 So let's look at this here at OpenClaw.
 So this is like a high level visualization of OpenClaw.
 So you have data connectors like Calendar, Gmail, and Notion.
 The center of this is like an AI agent.
 Could be a chat, UBT, Gemini, or pod code.
 And then it has a bunch of tools, data connectors, tools,
 it could be anything, like send telegraph, create invoice,
 send email, summarize, book meetings.
 Any of these can be tools that you connect.
 However, there's also extra things
 that you need to add, which is memory.
 So it needs to go through you, install OpenClaw.
 It writes a markdown file called Notes.
 So every time you write it, it writes
 notes to keep track of your interests, or safeguards,
 or anything that you've been doing,
 so that when you ask it for a new task, it can serve you better.
 Because now it knows more about you as you use it.
 And there's also this thing called Sol.
 So Sol is like an extension of a persona.
 It's like a character, values, goals, the North Stars.
 And Sol is an agent's Sol.
 That's why they call it Sol.mp.
 So if you go to OpenClaw.ai, or like their website,
 you install OpenClaw on your computer.
 And there's like a bunch of steps that it guides you through.
 The first step, when you run it, when you install it,
 just like when you install a game,
 or you install the software, the first step
 is to decide which model you're going to use.
 AI, Quent, Synthemic, Venice AI, Google,
 Copilot, OpenRouter, and so on, so on.
 For this hackathon, the way we're going to encourage--
 you can use anything you want, but we're
 going to show with plot code.
 I personally find plot code very powerful.
 But you can use anything you want.
 And then it will ask you to select some channels.
 It's like, what do you want to connect it with?
 So you can connect with Google, Discord, Telegram, Slack,
 Signal, all of these things.
 Of course, different channels have different challenges
 in connecting them.
 For example, Telegram is very easy to connect with.
 I connect with it in like 10 minutes,
 and it wants to be able to send me messages.
 WhatsApp is a bit more challenging.
 It might log you off, and it might throttle your messages
 and so on.
 You need to buy a business API if you
 want to connect it properly, but that's very expensive.
 But Telegram is free.
 This part as well.
 You will also show how to connect with Google and so on.
 So these are what we call the data connectors, connecting
 with different data sources.
 And then there's tools.
 There's a lot of tools, like Apple Notes.
 If you wanted to allow it to use your password to log in
 into different systems, you can have it access one password.
 So one password I use personally.
 I'm not sure how many-- how many people here
 use one password?
 Yeah, that's one of my favorites.
 I have more than 300 websites that I've signed up here.
 I can't memorize all those 300 passwords.
 One password is one of the best ways
 to access different websites without having
 to remember all of them.
 But there's a lot of different tools.
 It could be Obsidian, which just keeps
 track of different documents.
 It could be summarization.
 So this is like OpenClog, if you install it in your machine.
 But we're not going to use OpenClog,
 even though this is OpenClog and it's something else.
 Tricks, OK.
 OpenClog is the inspiration.
 In fact, if you watch YouTube videos on OpenClog,
 a lot of them will recommend building your own OpenClog,
 because you'll have more control over security.
 You'll have a lot more flexibility.
 You can create your own service providers,
 your own data connectors and tools.
 And potentially a lot more useful,
 because OpenClog has its own harness.
 It might not be useful for your use case.
 But if you're using something like Clog code to build it,
 chances are you'll get a much more useful harness.
 It's actually very easy.
 For the people who did workshops on Clog code,
 you can just go open Clog code, and you ask it,
 create a connector for Notion, or Telegram, VDC, et cetera.
 And then it will guide you.
 OK, you hit your NPI key, go to this website, link it.
 It creates a file, and then it presents it to you.
 So it's very, very powerful.
 So these are some of the tools that I created myself,
 like Accessi and Excel sheet, Gmail, and other tools.
 Does that make sense?
 Any questions?
 We're not going to use other tools.
 [LAUGHTER]
 [INAUDIBLE]
 One thing that's to worry about.
 Yeah, yeah.
 We don't need to use other tools.
 We call it OpenClog for [INAUDIBLE]
 Clickbait.
 Clickbait.
 Yeah.
 Clickbait.
 [LAUGHS]
 Yeah, that's right.
 OK, so yeah, this is how it works.
 But let me show you an example.
 So this is a website I built myself.
 So one of the best ways to use Cloud Code
 is to install VS Code.
 It's a nice interface.
 And then install an extension called Cloud Code.
 So the chat looks like this.
 When you open VS Code, you'll also
 be presented with a co-pilot, ignore a co-pilot.
 Sometimes I get tricked, and I accidentally
 tell a co-pilot to do things for me,
 but it doesn't do it as well.
 So Cloud Code is the one that I recommend using.
 So all the files, as you can see there.
 So yeah, this is Cloud Code.
 This is the agent that you chat with to build your app,
 your Visual Assistant app.
 This is the code it creates.
 If you don't read a coder, you don't
 have to look at this as much.
 But it's just files that it organizes.
 So it's nice to see what files it has to be created.
 And each file could be accessing different services.
 And then this is the website that it created,
 which I will demonstrate in a second.
 OK, so let me show you that website
 that I created yesterday.
 First, I'll show you the landing page, so Automate Anything
 with AI Components.
 So instead of tools, I call them components,
 because there are tools and data connectors.
 Components for me is anything, like tools, data connectors,
 services, and so on.
 So these are all different things
 that I have created myself.
 So for example, access Excel sheets.
 So I told it to connect to my Google account.
 I run this.
 It's actually, like, something, and these are actions.
 Access Google.
 So this gives me all the Google events.
 You see here?
 So I don't have to go to the Google website.
 I can just retrieve them by the API.
 Access Notion.
 So I can, like, search for different Notion documents
 that I have.
 Or I can create a new one.
 So let's say, build [INAUDIBLE]
 It creates it, and then now I can open in Notion.
 So this is very cool, right?
 Because that means-- the fact that I can do it
 in a different website like that,
 that means you can have agents that automate all of that.
 You can have-- you can send something to Telegram,
 and it creates Notion for you, or it gives you
 a list of Google events that you have, and so on.
 I built a bunch of things just for fun.
 It was very quick to build all these things.
 Find grants.
 You're looking for, like, a two-bedroom.
 There, you've got a two-bedroom, and you can see it in the map.
 I built this in, like, 10 minutes.
 I just ask, give me something that
 accesses, like, Zoom per retail, and so on.
 And then I can ask it in a plain language,
 and then you just face the whole thing.
 Pretty more cool stuff.
 All Zoom meetings.
 It shows me all the Zoom meetings,
 so you don't have to go to that annoying Zoom interface.
 So this is another very useful thing
 for having your own personal assistant.
 If you're tired of navigating different web apps, like Zoom,
 or learning how to use Zoom, learning how to use Notion,
 learning how to use NUMA, you can have it
 all in your own interface, or you can have it in Telegram.
 That's the beauty of this.
 That's why they say SaaS, Software as a Service, is dying.
 Because you don't need these softwares anymore.
 You can just have an agent that just accesses this,
 and displays it in a very nice dashboard.
 What else do we have?
 Google Calendar.
 There you go.
 Search marketplace.
 We created this for fun.
 We made the same searching for bikes.
 We went to PGG and Craigslist.
 Very cool, right?
 And then you can create a chatbot.
 So you can go here, and it can give you a personality.
 So I called it Sol, a personality.
 So it can only say, ah.
 Let's just see if it works.
 It's using open router.
 So open router is something else we're going to use.
 There you go.
 Or be pretty wise, like Nisha.
 It's thinking now, because it's wise.
 Using Sonnet.
 So Sonnet is a very expensive model.
 There you go.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 So I just created a chatbot, basically, with a persona.
 And it just took, also, 10 minutes to create.
 Yeah?
 I have a quick-- the Create List one.
 Did you tell it which places to go to to find those listings?
 Ah, OK, good question.
 So the question was, for the Create List component or tool,
 did I ask the bot to go to Create List specific to PGG?
 I didn't.
 I just said, give me listings of different items around the area.
 And then it suggests a second.
 Do you want PGG increases?
 And then I said, yes.
 It also found out which places to go for.
 So if there are some places which you trust,
 you can also tell it to actually exclusively access those?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Teachable mode?
 Yeah, so you see this chatbot that we had here?
 So all these that I'm showing are different components.
 At the end, you'll have workflows,
 which is just a mix of these components together.
 So you can imagine connecting the chatbot
 with the Create List item and Telegram.
 So now you go to Telegram, you send a message.
 The message goes to your chatbot.
 The chatbot accesses a component for retrieving items
 from Create List, then goes back to Telegram.
 So you're connecting different components.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Conversation would be another example.
 Text-to-speech could be another component.
 So if you want Telegram to give you audio,
 you can add a text-to-speech component using a lot of apps.
 And then it gives you the audio file or--
 [INAUDIBLE]
 So you can do it locally-- so for example, here,
 I'm using OpenRouter.
 But you can have a model running on your machine that's
 connected to your phone.
 The question was, what the statement was,
 can we just combine these components
 to do something together, right?
 Yeah, yeah, exactly.
 So this component's idea--
 I mean, it's there, but it's not really standardized.
 But now I'm seeing it more and more.
 In fact, there's this thing called QClaw,
 which does this component thing.
 I thought I came up with this idea.
 And then I just-- last week, I saw this QClaw,
 which is putting all these components
 like a dashboard like this.
 You can imagine this as a marketplace
 for all the services and components
 that you want to integrate into your personal assistant.
 So one of the asks for this hackathon
 is to ask you to create a marketplace like this,
 like a dashboard like this, for every component
 that you want for your app.
 So if you went to the previous workshops
 in building your AI apps, the goal
 was just to build an app, right, if it does its own thing.
 Now one of the three quizzes that I will really recommend
 is to first build all the components that you want,
 like text-to-speech, chatbot, telegram, and so on.
 And have them-- when you click on them,
 there's a way to test them.
 So when you run it, it should give you the output, like here.
 So you can test them.
 And then, on top of components, you
 can have workflows, components and workflows.
 Workflows is a combination of them.
 Yeah?
 So is it a good idea to have only one--
 So the question was, is it--
 can you have one personal assistant versus many?
 Yeah.
 And so it depends on how far the use cases are from each other.
 So if all the use cases are about the same taxes,
 just one personal assistant, unless maybe there's
 many different kinds of taxes.
 It depends how different your use cases are.
 They can be clustered very independently.
 I would recommend having a personal assistant--
 two different personal assistants.
 Based on the domain.
 Based on the domain.
 Because if you have independent domains,
 and you have one personal assistant, it's just too much.
 You're cooking a clutter.
 There won't be a lot of coupling.
 So one of the main practices of software engineering
 is minimizing coupling.
 Keeping your-- yeah, dependencies.
 Dependencies when there's none.
 There shouldn't be dependencies.
 So emphasizing modularity.
 So this is very important when you build your code
 and your app.
 Always make sure to ask your agent
 to make things very modular.
 Otherwise, things will be intertwined,
 and then you'll be spending a million tokens
 every time you call it.
 So it doesn't know where things are, and so on.
 Is this a personal assistant?
 This is a personal assistant for me.
 But then the things that you have listed out here
 are not related to each other and such.
 So you just said that if--
 So this is a meta--
 OK, so this is more like a meta personal assistant.
 OK, so this is not--
 OK, this is maybe not really a personal assistant.
 This is more of a marketplace of all the components
 that will help you create--
 yeah, that I use to help me create my own personal assistant.
 Yeah, so this is just a market.
 I can say this is less of a personal assistant.
 At the end of the word, it's just words.
 But yeah, that's a very good thing to do.
 So each of these things, each of these tabs, in and of itself
 is a personal assistant.
 But integrated together, it's not a personal assistant.
 That's what you're saying?
 So each of these tabs is like a--
 OK, so let's say I want to access Notion, right?
 Or generate Excalator, for example.
 This allows me to generate figures,
 which is actually very cool.
 Well, you can say this is kind of a personal assistant.
 But it's not really a personal assistant.
 It's a service, because when I see a personal assistant,
 somebody can interact with it.
 A network-- well, this is more of a connector.
 So a personal assistant is something
 that you can go back and forth, keeps track
 of what you've been doing all your time.
 Components are like--
 Components are like connectors, exactly.
 It's more of a connector, like a single service.
 Personal assistant has-- so a personal assistant,
 as I showed you here, is more like this.
 It has a use case, and it has memory, has its own persona,
 does different things.
 But it has concrete workflows, a set of workflows.
 So a personal assistant could be like,
 let's say, I'm organizing these back events.
 There's a lot of things that go into this.
 I need to first book the meeting.
 I need to get sponsorships.
 I need to see the costs, get the insurance, and so on.
 So a component would be just booking the room.
 Personal assistant is doing all that thing together.
 The use case is higher level when
 it comes to personal assistant.
 It's automating workflows.
 That's what a personal assistant is.
 Automating workflows, yeah.
 Whereas what you just presented is part of that one pane
 of glass.
 Exactly, it's one task.
 It's like doing one task.
 So automating workflows, but maybe
 doesn't have to be fully automated.
 Like, could you automate with a human in the loop?
 You just guide it to make sure things don't go crazy.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah, so that's actually a good question.
 Good statement.
 So the statement was that you can
 have an agent on top of this.
 So let's say you have 1,000 components.
 This is like a marketplace for your agent.
 You have 10,000 components.
 And you tell your cloud code or your agent,
 create a personal assistant for booking events here and there.
 Then it will decide which components are useful
 and create workflows on top of it.
 Yeah?
 Yeah.
 By itself, by itself.
 So I don't tell it a protocol of like, in the workflow,
 I have step A to B happening first, and then step B,
 and that's how you do it.
 Or should I just tell it, create your own workflows?
 Exactly, create your workflows.
 But you can vet it.
 So you create the workflows, and you can say,
 oh, my god, this is a good nice workflow, or this is bad.
 So here's the thing.
 If you use upper cloud or cloud code,
 you can even skip the part of components
 and just say, cloud code, create workflows for me
 to book AI events without giving it any components.
 So you can go even higher level.
 But I recommend against that, because then you
 will have a lot of risks.
 Because then it will create its own components in its own way.
 You don't know if they're secure.
 You don't know if you're going to do the right thing,
 and so on.
 So how many things in components first so you can vet them?
 Because it's always nice to have each component to be audited.
 So each component, you make sure it doesn't access data
 that is sensitive.
 Or you make sure it doesn't leak to your files or something.
 So if you enforce your agent to build
 workflows based on your components,
 you already have some guarantees in terms of security and safety.
 This is the trend of enterprise and organizations.
 They're going from just asking cloud code to do things for you
 to first build things in components,
 and then cloud code can only do things based on those.
 Very, very important.
 You have more control to tell it which components you use.
 Exactly.
 You can go one step further.
 You have these components.
 You ask the agent to build a workflow for you.
 Now you have a set of workflows.
 You can also vet those.
 So if you have a workflow for booking events,
 you can just rerun that workflow.
 If you don't have that workflow saved,
 it will just create--
 every time you ask cloud code to build a workflow,
 it will create new workflows every time.
 You're wasting tokens.
 There's a lot of risks of doing something wrong.
 Things are not predictable, because every time
 it creates a workflow, even for the same domain,
 for the same task, because all these models are probabilistic.
 It's not deterministic.
 You just recreate the workflow from scratch.
 This is the idea of [INAUDIBLE] creating workflows from scratch.
 So the more I'm thinking about it-- so basically,
 the realistic use case, you're trying
 to make a personal assistant for every department of your life.
 So the same as finance.
 So for events, or XYZ, whatever it is.
 Exactly.
 You can make a personal assistant for each of them.
 And they can have their own components
 which interact with each other in order
 to give you the results.
 Exactly, yeah.
 So you have a personal assistant for every domain.
 In fact, this is actually a good exercise in life.
 You can see our lives are just made of workflows.
 How do I present?
 How do I create slides?
 How do I walk?
 How do I buy the cheapest drinks or something?
 You can imagine all these are workflows.
 How do I do my taxes?
 So you can create these once, and then reuse them
 all the time.
 Imagine you have a workflow for all the major things you
 have in life.
 It will save a lot of time, right?
 And trust that?
 Well, you audit them once.
 So once you audit the workflow, you trust it, trust it.
 You just need to know the workflow,
 like the range of outputs it can have.
 So if you have, let's say, a workflow of finding bikes,
 you can buy yourself a TGT, fix this, all these websites,
 interact with them, message the seller and so on.
 You can have that as a workflow.
 And that's it.
 You just rerun the workflow.
 And in that workflow, you can allow the user
 to type messages, like, OK, send to all the people who
 are selling bikes with costs as of 50, so you have the agent.
 Send them all the messages through this workflow.
 And then send up a message to yourself
 so it can tell you if it has actually
 sent a message today to someone or not
 if they got a deal on some bike.
 Exactly.
 And one of the best ways for the agent to send me messages
 is to connect to a telegram.
 Like, I have this telegram here.
 Hola, there you go.
 Something happened.
 I'm not sure why that happened.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Maybe you need a workflow to also fix.
 You can have also a layer to fix if anything goes down.
 We actually call this heartbeat.
 In OpenClaw, there's a concept called heartbeat.
 So heartbeat is like, every minute, every 10 minutes,
 you check something.
 Like, you check if you buy a new response.
 You check if your ads are down.
 You check this, and then do something based on the heartbeat.
 So in OpenClaw, there's a single app.
 Heartbeat, which we will integrate as well.
 There's also, like, for example, send email.
 So I want to send an email to this, right next.
 So there's going to be an error.
 I did that in purpose because I prevented the agent
 from sending emails to just prevent
 the case of sending wrong emails to the wrong person.
 So a lot of my accesses are, like, read only.
 There's another good thing to keep in mind.
 Start with read only.
 Another thing I wanted to show is this cool thing.
 So there's this thing called, I learned about it recently,
 generate Excalidraw.
 Anyone here know Excalidraw?
 Excalidraw is, like, a very nice way to create figures.
 See, like, these ones that I created.
 So I created an agent that I'll just
 start creating a flowchart in Excalidraw
 for amigos, amigos, amigos.
 And I created a JSON file that you can copy, paste.
 Excalidraw creates the chart.
 It was working, but let me see.
 I'm using class 74.
 So why can't we have another component to copy this code
 and then--
 Yeah, yeah, so because this is one-- yeah, we can.
 We can.
 We can have another component that copies that to there
 and retrains it, and that becomes a workflow.
 So workflow is just a series of components.
 Let's say we copy this.
 Hopefully it works.
 Oh, there you go.
 There you go.
 There you go.
 Very cool.
 So you can, like, whenever you want
 to create a figure that is cool, you can have it as a component.
 One thing that I want to tell people--
 remember, this guy is not here.
 He's a software engineer.
 He's like, ah, I want to create a QR code.
 All these online ones are paid or as ads.
 And they just ask [INAUDIBLE] create a simple script.
 So it's like, create this.
 You have a QR code.
 It stays forever.
 It's actually a very simple formula.
 People think it's insane.
 But because people think it's insane,
 there's, like, hundreds of QR codes online.
 Some of them ask you to register, spam, track you.
 It's very simple, even, really.
 I don't want to see anyone here using those websites for QR code.
 Does that make sense?
 Those online, does it make sense?
 Yeah, go ahead.
 For each of these, you give them access
 to your 1Password account, the password to log--
 Now, I will strongly recommend connecting it to 1Password.
 All right?
 All costs.
 All they give them is an API key.
 API key to 1Password.
 Yeah, yeah.
 So if you log into Zoom, for example,
 or you log in to Excalidraw or Notion, there's a set up.
 It's called a path set up.
 There, you can get an API.
 How do you control it so it accesses your 1Password?
 Doesn't get access to some other account
 that you don't like to share with.
 So if it has access to 1Password, it technically
 has access to all your passwords in the app, right?
 And people were doing it, and a lot of them were not doing it.
 So be really careful.
 So there's another component called browser MCP,
 for example.
 So browser MCP could be a component
 which allows your computer to interact with the web.
 So let's say you want to tell your agent
 to log into your Gmail or log into an app.
 You can go to 1Password or achieve the login information
 and go to the website through browser MCP
 because it can click.
 But also, browser MCP is very risky.
 I recommend having a phone for that because it can click.
 Or you can get an advertisement that says, oh, you
 want iPhone 14, click here.
 And then the agent's like, oh, I will satisfy my master.
 Which of these components or their capabilities
 are limited to the API that you're accessing?
 Yeah.
 Like your Zoom, it depends on what they're willing to share.
 Exactly, so that's another thing to watch out for,
 the limitations on these API keys.
 There are ways to go beyond API keys, like MCPs.
 And there are some tricks, but usually they're frail.
 But API keys is one of the best ways to go with it.
 So don't trust API keys.
 And are you adding some form of protection
 within these components?
 For example, I could ask the assistant
 to find the best price for a car.
 I could send a message to all my friends,
 what car do you recommend?
 Yeah.
 Right, that wasn't my intention.
 It wasn't my intention.
 It was to go and do research, right?
 How do you control it so it doesn't go out of bounds?
 Well, the agent can only use that.
 So first you have to create the components.
 Like the WhatsApp, for example.
 Like the WhatsApp, although this one doesn't work.
 I don't want to do WhatsApp to send everybody
 a message asking--
 So when it creates the workflow for you,
 based on components, you can look at the workflow
 and remove the things you don't like.
 So here people know NA10, right?
 So you could imagine--
 so this is like an NA10 for people who use NA10.
 It's like a very popular workflow instruction.
 So you just link here, like Slack,
 and then you have AI agent that does that.
 So you can imagine that workflow that it builds
 is just something like this.
 You can remove things.
 And then you ask, OK, why do we use Kotlin, not just NA10?
 Even though NA10 looks easy to use,
 it's actually very difficult if you
 want something outside the nodes that they give you.
 And then every node has its own behavior.
 Maybe it's not very flexible.
 Every node has a lot of constraints.
 So that's the problem.
 So it's like basically creating an NA10 on demand.
 That's the idea, creating an NA10.
 So if you create the workflow, and then
 one of the components that you decided
 to add while sending it to everyone,
 you can just delete that.
 And then when you run the workflow, it doesn't run that.
 You can think of components also nodes, and so on.
 And the component is just a concept I came up with.
 The component could be a workflow in itself.
 Right, I understand the idea of workflow,
 which is pre-planned.
 I kind of imagined the system creatively come up
 with a better way of doing it.
 Yeah.
 So I really-- so this is where we're heading.
 Now the recommendation is not to just allow it
 to dynamically create workflows for different tasks,
 because there's a lot of danger.
 You can run a lot of tokens, and things are not consistent.
 One of the best ways to do this is to allow it
 to create a workflow.
 And then you vet it.
 It's like, OK, is this nice?
 And then you run the workflow.
 You can have an agent that does limited interactions,
 like just send an email.
 The workflow doesn't mean static.
 The workflow can also have inputs that you can give,
 like messages to send and so on.
 But it's way more restricted.
 There's another way to handle the API keys or any other
 secrets that you need for the agent to run properly.
 Especially with one password, you can create one vault,
 and then you can put it in different--
 OK, good idea.
 OK, so for people who want to use one password,
 you can have different vaults, and you just give it the vault.
 So there's actually a cool idea.
 I've seen people do it.
 So you know like in Twitter or on the internet,
 where there's a lot of announcement of prices.
 It's like, join this, and then you
 have a 5% probability of winning an award.
 So some people create an agent, which
 just logs in to all of these services,
 and then goes into the draw of prices, and then it wins.
 Because it's went into like 10 million draws
 of many different events on Twitter and so on.
 It just got prices.
 So you just give it a vault. One of the reasons I said that,
 is you can give it a vault to keep track of only the passwords
 and usernames for websites that you don't care about.
 Gmail.
 Gmail, you should remember.
 Regarding the Kelly draw, it resulted in one flowchart.
 But I don't like it.
 I want something else.
 Yes, it can happen to me.
 So how do we do it?
 I want it to be able to give me the best version possible.
 So what can I do for it to satisfy what I want as a result,
 and then use that to create the--
 OK, so it's like a combination of different components.
 One component is the chatbot, and then you
 have the Skype draw that generates the flowchart,
 and then the image that you get from the Skype.
 So you have all these three interacting.
 So if you look at the output, and then you talk to the agent,
 you say, I don't like this color.
 Can you change it?
 And then you just change it.
 Can I give it a reference that I want to create something?
 Yeah, you can upload a picture.
 Can you do anything you want?
 One, because time is passing fast,
 but all of these are good questions.
 Discord is nice and alive, asking us many questions.
 There will be prizes for people who ask a lot.
 So let me show you some different workflows
 that people have built. So personal assistant.
 So this is going to also answer the question of what
 is a personal assistant.
 So you can think of all these different nodes as components
 for tools.
 So there's a YouTube guy named Matthew Berman.
 He's actually very good.
 I like watching his YouTube videos.
 And he created-- he has a YouTube video called 21 Use
 Cases of Up and Far Talk.
 And he also generated these with [INAUDIBLE]
 This is a CRM system, Customer Relation and Management system.
 So let's say you want to--
 you're selling services, let's say you're selling metals,
 but you have a relationship with different customers.
 So let's say you're connected to a Deloitte,
 you're connected to a VMO, you're
 connected to many different companies and potential clients.
 So CRMs, a lot of companies have their own CRMs,
 which is about managing your relationships
 with your clients or customers.
 So you can keep track of all the Gmail calendar and knowledge
 base of these clients.
 You scan them.
 And then if there's a movement in the relationship,
 one of the customers is like, oh, I don't like this office.
 I want to go somewhere else.
 You maybe automatically send them an email.
 Personal assistant could be meetings.
 You know, like AI companion.
 So you can think of AI companion as a personal assistant.
 That transcribes the chat in your Zoom.
 So you can have that as a personal assistant.
 It takes transcript.
 OK, maybe it matches it to the CRM that you had earlier.
 Finds to-do action items, and then
 adds them to your to-do list as a task.
 So to-do list is a very nice app that gives you--
 well, it helps you keep track of your to-do list.
 But you can also make it after meeting ends.
 You can have it send action items to your Notion,
 for example, and then you open Notion, or to your Telegram.
 So you can do whatever you want.
 But you see here that the main difference
 is how we built in our previous workshops in here.
 In the previous workshop, you just had more of a static app.
 Right now, you have data connectors,
 and you have these services that you connect to, and actions.
 You can also have knowledge base.
 Let's say you want to keep up to date with all the latest
 papers.
 So I have that.
 All the latest papers in AI are like different domains.
 You can connect it to different articles, YouTube, Twitter.
 Although Twitter API is pretty intense,
 I think they have a very high cost,
 and the free version's not very good.
 You can ingest all of that, and you can send it to Slack,
 and then it can send you on Telegram.
 So, oh, I found five papers.
 You can have social media tracking.
 Morning briefings is a very good one.
 This is one that we specifically have.
 It connects with your account, and it tells you, OK,
 what should we do to this?
 Like, my tipper-hand told me today
 I have to do this defense.
 Good reminder, right?
 Imagine what we're doing.
 So when it comes to workflows, there
 are different strategies to think about.
 So remember, the workflow is saying
 getting items from Craigslist.
 The one we were mentioning right now is called--
 the one-off workflow.
 You run it.
 You run it, and it doesn't work.
 But you can also have cron jobs and heartbeats.
 The cron jobs is scheduled.
 So daily briefings can be scheduled every morning.
 Every morning is scheduled, and it sends you the briefing.
 So cron jobs is scheduled.
 It just waits, let's say, every 6 AM, and it does it.
 It's like the rooster in the morning when we do the alarm.
 Alarm is a good cron job.
 Heartbeat is a bit different.
 Heartbeat means like every 30 minutes or every one hour,
 it does something.
 It's like every one hour is like paycheck on this client.
 Is he happy?
 Is he not?
 Is he angry or something?
 Heartbeat is like a pulse check.
 Your heart is sending oxygen, [INAUDIBLE]
 These are different strategies you can use to run workflows.
 So heartbeat is a constant that came out of public law.
 So it doesn't make a differentiator here,
 but cron jobs could be heartbeats.
 Well, there's cron jobs like every time,
 but it could also be every 30 minutes.
 It's the same thing.
 But as you can see, schedule at a time versus you thinking,
 there's like a subtle difference,
 but they're both under cron.
 They're all like terms that are kind of Jewish.
 It's not like it's a standard term.
 You need these components plus that.
 But if you really like us to see things
 in the form of components or tools, that's so fast.
 OK, so how does the hackathon help?
 OK, this week's overview.
 Today, Saturday, we're doing the kickoff, as you can see.
 After this, we're going to have socials.
 We're going to go somewhere.
 We're going to have pizza there.
 We're going to play some board games.
 And you can just follow me.
 Socials are great.
 Socials is the best way to connect.
 For me, my biggest career growth was
 connecting with other people who are building.
 So Sunday and Tuesday--
 or Sunday and Monday, we'll figure this out.
 We'll have app building lectures.
 We're going to do two lectures.
 One lecture will be me, the one on Sunday.
 I'll show you how to build personal assistance from
 scratch.
 And the lecture after that will be by Powell about security.
 In fact, when I created a website for this hackathon,
 it immediately sent me this cloud analysis of some
 potential loophole that it has.
 But don't worry about it.
 But it's a good idea.
 Whenever you build an app, send it to a cloud or something
 that's so secure.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 They're the same thing.
 The CLI agent or cloud code or VS code, they're the same.
 It's just the VS code that makes it easier to view things.
 Because then you can see the files.
 You can see the code.
 You can mention about these codes.
 Huh?
 You can mention about-- there's also codecs.
 Meaning that if you're already paying for open AI,
 which are GPT, you can use alternatively codecs.
 Well, so the things we're showing right now
 is another scaffolding on top of the other scaffolding that
 already exists.
 So cloud code has its own scaffolding, right?
 It can plan.
 It can do things for you.
 The components, you can think of these components that we have.
 There's an extra scaffolding.
 It's like having a building that's your scaffolding
 and then adding others.
 And then Monday and Thursday, we're
 going to go to WeWork together.
 These are also one of the best places to be at.
 More like inspiring each other and making a lot of progress.
 We've seen a lot of people come to WeWork in those days
 and then spend the whole night just working.
 It's very addicting.
 How long does it take to build a pipe?
 One week is a lot of time.
 But it's also enough time to build it.
 Like that thing I built, I mean, maybe I have experience.
 But you can build something if you have all miners.
 But it's doable.
 I've seen it.
 Also access the-- everything is in the Hackathon website.
 So you go to the website that I sent in the glass and Discord
 and so on.
 Go there, log in.
 You can use your roommate email and password.
 Password is 123, security loopholes.
 But you can change the password where you're in.
 There isn't much information about you anyways.
 The only information is like the thing
 that the tasks you have completed and so on.
 It's pretty much-- and then you can see there's a leaderboard.
 So there's a leaderboard about how many people
 have finished their tasks.
 And the leaderboard's sorted by how many have finished.
 So you're last.
 I mean, there's always a last, no matter how good everyone is.
 And then one day, what we're going to ask
 is to create a demo video of 1.5 minutes max.
 That'll go beyond 1.5 minutes.
 No slides at all.
 Not slides before, just the lives.
 You interact with the app.
 So this is a nice app for the AI system
 that helps people do homework for our previous cohorts
 from a different program.
 And I've shown this in 1.5 minutes.
 And then we're going to display the video,
 so you don't have to do a live demo.
 Then people ask you questions.
 You submit this, you'll get your certificate of completion.
 And you'll have the chance to win the prizes.
 So all this needs to be done at the end, only the level.
 Yeah, the winners get prizes.
 So from Eliminate the Universe, first place, $150.00,
 second place, $100.00, third place, $50.00.
 From Dental Boutique, you're going
 to get this very nice package.
 They're happy.
 $300.00.
 So instead of leaving the video, it's really nice, yeah?
 The best people in Greeting.
 Trust me, based on how people greet you,
 you'll be attracted to one person, yeah?
 Yeah, and these are some of the judges.
 Alina is from Eliminate the Universe.
 Claire, from behind, will be one of the judges.
 So make sure you--
 You're good with her.
 [LAUGHTER]
 Maybe if you come to her, Dental Boutique,
 you get bonus points with some prizes.
 She's there at the front desk.
 Oh, I've seen your app.
 Elaine, so OK, I'll send the address.
 Elaine, I'll send the address.
 I'll send it in this one.
 Today, right?
 Yeah.
 OK, I'll do a very quick control by myself.
 I did my PhD at UBC, postdoc at McGill.
 Now I work as a research scientist at UBC.
 And now I'm managing other research scientists.
 A lot of AI.
 I've been doing AI more than 14 years before it became big.
 That time when I was doing AI, it was during the AI winter.
 Paul, do you want to introduce yourself?
 Do you want to, like, so that people can hear you?
 Because I'm using your laptop.
 Actually, I believe some of you already know me.
 Hi, I'm Paul.
 I'm a senior data scientist at JBS and Fortline.
 So I work in a digital innovation domain.
 And the domain is based on actually building
 agenda systems, primarily for, like, deep airlines.
 I find AI solutions in general innovations.
 And I'll be helping you some to guide you through the process.
 And I want to focus especially on aspects
 of debugging and security.
 This is very important.
 And you might have heard that open domain exploded.
 Right away, there's, like, adoption in the industry.
 But we're so focused on sandboxing the solutions
 and the security.
 One primary example is Nemobor from NPDI.
 And if you read anything about Nemobor,
 you will notice that big part of that so-called open shell,
 we gave you the idea to sandbox access to code execution,
 that data availability.
 And yet, usually, we are dealing with a trade-off.
 So the more flexibility and independence your agent has,
 the more useful it gets.
 But the higher the risks.
 So I guess we need to find some trade-off.
 My background is in computer science.
 I use all of the coding agents in databases,
 both private projects and enterprise-level cloud code,
 process-grade products from OpenAI.
 And we were briefly mentioning [INAUDIBLE]
 which is really, really great.
 But at the same time, if you're already
 paying for OpenAI, charge GPT, charge GPT and OpenAI
 has this thing called [INAUDIBLE]
 And there are three main components for OpenAI,
 which is, like, CLI, running the terminal, the visual code
 flagging, which is so great.
 And I highly recommend using visual code
 because it gives you much more visibility
 into what's happening in the code that you're building.
 And of course, the desktop app, both the cloud and the products
 have about desktop apps.
 The last but not least, you can use it
 to build your own AI agent and personal assistant.
 But also, once you get those components,
 which is kind of like a tool or a speed server,
 you can essentially use it from within--
 blogs, products, class, personal assistant.
 And the last but not least, later in my head,
 sometimes you talk about it, but there
 are different agentic SDKs that you can use.
 And one of them is called agent SDK, which essentially
 is a full harness that I'm talking about already built.
 And you can plug in all of those components,
 and you can do something with it in fact [INAUDIBLE]
 So hopefully we'll be able to do that.
 Thanks, Mal.
 It's good.
 So we're going to have a quick break.
 We're going to come back--
 let's come back at 12.30.
 We're going to come back at 12.30.
 Feel free to grab those gift cards from that top.
 It's $50, whether you're insured or not.
 So we'll have a quick presentation on this part of this.
 And one thing is that keep your laptops ready,
 because the next part will be we're going to group together,
 and we're going to build a spring app.
 It has a landing page and some walkout components.
 Even those online, we're going to tell you how to do it.
 So you get your PS code with Cloud Code or CodeX ready,
 so you can build that landing page.
 And then you get the chance to present.
 So let's go.
 Let's come back at 12.30.
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [INAUDIBLE]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [INAUDIBLE]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
 [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
