 but that's easier if you are going with the standard color like white or gray
 so uh can you say that again what's the difference between those this is this is a high gloss
 high gloss okay and this is a matte finish matte finish yeah high gloss is the shiny one the one
 we have on the front wall i can feel that it's a little bit reflection on it yeah and matte is like
 that one but it doesn't have a reflection yes so matt is a more closer to filter doors i can say
 so this front wall the white and black ones are painted slab doors uh i see i see yeah i'm looking
 for something that is let's say if it's damaged and then i can replace it easily i can find the
 replacement is easier to find for the white one so if you are going with the trellis it's more
 price friendly than painted ones okay acrylic is cheaper than paint and uh for the white ones it's
 easily available i can say like i suppose you are going with the blue sometimes yeah sometimes supplier
 replaced this blue shade with lighter or darker than this one yeah that is it can be a problem i see
 i see i see i see i see so yeah good good call uh i will double check with that and then maybe i'll go
 for the white one uh either you can do a contrast with the wooden finishes so something like this you
 can do a white contrast with this one either this one what do you mean by construction it's like you
 have to add a layer or top of it you know like uh base cabinets are in a white and a wall in both green
 island in the border green rest all white you can do that as well so these are a little expensive than
 regular acrylic ones yeah but if you like a wood grain finishes you can add these ones for some
 washrooms or for a high light part of the kitchen gotcha uh how much will those cost is it like you'll be uh
 like how many percentage 20 30 percent it's easier than the white one or then the white one maybe it's uh
 15 to 20 percent 15 to 20 percent yeah because the the wood color will be make the house looks more
 warm i would say those ones so white ones will give you a good price for the colored ones the comparison
 is 10 to 15 percent maybe with the white it will be more i'm not sure with the white the only difference is
 uh white ones we bought in a bulk so we got a deal price on white ones for the other colors price is a
 little higher than the white gotcha gotcha i see i see okay fair enough yeah because i personally have
 a firm um um i don't know to be honest i don't have any preferences i want i want something long lasting
 long lasting easy to replace easy to fix and then so anytime you say hey uh the ball is broken
 the thing is gone bye bye and i need to be replaced then i can hey i can come back here okay oh i need
 to buy something if damage is gonna happen very regularly then painted is best like it's easy to do the
 touch-ups on paint then the acrylic so on acrylic one if something is damaged we have to replace the whole
 door so that thing is okay so i can say hey i got the size and this doll need to be yes you're gonna get
 the new new one yes things like that okay um yeah i will think about that i think that is a good point
 if i get for the white one what about those one those are wood material is it is it okay to replace
 or you may not be able to find the same color same type uh most probably it will be same but we can't
 predict future yeah like if something is discontinued from employer's side like sale is not that good
 they switched color with something else so we're not sure about that scenario makes sense makes sense
 because anyone sees how to say yeah because it's uh for buddha grind it's personal choice why it is
 you give me the idea of the white one will be easy to find because yeah anywhere is like the white one
 yeah yes yes that makes sense that makes sense definitely okay i have i have some idea right now
 because i'm still looking for what kind of stuff i need okay if you have any pictures you can show me
 uh for the for the design for the design i see i don't really have any design right now
 uh the only thing i have is uh from from um give me one sec i think i may have one uh see the best
 um this one um so um that is from the see the best company and he they they have a many project here
 and then i believe this one maybe yeah so this one the kitchen comes out this one can i see
 sure it doesn't allow me to click and full screen okay so this is a high gloss acrylic they make
 islander in different color whole cabinet trays of this material just the island is something like this
 yeah whole is the like high gloss white high gloss contrasted with the gray something like this maybe
 they got the the lights on and make the refreshing and make the the the cabinet looks good yeah still
 it's a high gloss material white high gloss acrylic gotcha gotcha yeah so you like something this one's
 islands color is different and rest all cabinet trees in one color actually for the renovation that i'm
 going to do i'm not going to do any cap uh iceland so i'm going to remove the iceland slow iceland
 so and then i'm just going to do the kitchen or the cabinet and all the things and regarding uh
 refreshing or no reflection and i talk i i didn't know because when i show my family hey which one you
 like my family say hey this this looks good and okay so for cleaning purpose maintenance purpose high
 gloss is easy to maintain matte is a bit hard why because on gloss if you wipe something it's gonna
 clean easily for matte you can feel the texture if something is spilled on this that will go to the panel
 and it needs to be cleaned very like i can say hardly gotcha gotcha yeah gloss ones are easy to maintain
 got it another question is about the um the material let's say if i go for this uh this material here
 yeah it got the reflection looks good and then the touch is smooth so good everything is good but the
 thing is uh let's say um is it if i put the water on it like maybe i think 10 hours maybe 20 hours is it
 get inside yeah get inside and then get like if it's spilled you clean no damage if water is staying on
 the panel for long hours it may okay how long is like like the uh there's a time limit here because
 i did some research they say some material that can last the water maybe 24 hours some can last few days
 some can stand for never sure because before whenever customers ask us what's like water resistant
 resistant of this material only till that like if something is spills uh we recommend them to
 clean right way yeah yeah water is on the panel for long hours it might affect we are not sure as well
 gotcha gotcha because uh it really um depends on the situation because there's a
 acrylic comes as well that is uh water resistant and fire resistant like different than this one
 but that is uh very expensive oh yes yes that's why i have those samples here as well so these are
 water and fire resistant but this is uh more expensive yeah i can say two times and two three times
 then yeah that's why i want to have something easy to replace that's why i want to have something
 that is easy to replace so let's say if something is damaged i can yeah if something is
 like that they need to replace something we need to order a panel so it's a special order
 suppliers are not keeping these ones in their stocks they also have to order from them
 it's gonna take longer time than thread gotcha gotcha so so uh so um so why not i got the idea so if i
 want to get something maybe the best option is get the white with the uh this one and then um maybe i
 i don't know maybe the white uh countertop as well so make everything white i don't know it's like
 then you have options for the contour so you can go with something like this like white but have a
 variations in it like different colors oh this this feeling is different this is not that yeah that is
 different so this is the cheaper one it's just three quarter thick okay yeah three quarters so it's like
 not that thing or it's not like uh that much heavy duty so it's ancient quarter and polished on top
 this is just three quarter slab oh i see i see so is it that that is um uh stone or wood inside or
 because this whole thing is solid you can i see i see okay because this one i don't know it's like i
 touch on it i feel is cheap the feeling this is cheaper than that one that feels we're just keeping
 it as an option but but but uh personally personally for more i say i like the thin one i don't like the
 fake one exactly the big one is is too heavy too heavy i want to keep everything simple easy to maintain
 and lightweight so we can go with something from this book oh i can feel it yeah we are dealing with the
 lady the fabricator ladies name is youtube so we are dealing with them if you like something from this one
 we can also do the order for you i see i see i see um so right now i don't have any preference so
 in my opinion this and this and that looks same sorry
 they all have slight variations so in this one pattern is really merged on that one the color is like
 gray it's uh suspended all over so on this one variations is different kind of so all is about
 the pattern color is white yeah the only thing is i feel this one is feel cheaper cheaper yes that is
 like a bit rough but but they look all same tone for me
 and the other one you can go with actually any option from whatever you can get like best price i can say
 the other one i found i i see there's a good one here this one um this one is slightly i i i i
 like this one like this one like this one it looks so cool it's got a little shiny here and this is also from
 this one yeah this one looks uh little bit more like i don't know is it this is a good one or or
 natural stone or what is it i think good ones like quite thicker yeah i just like that the little shiny
 uh like a sprinkle something like that thank you yeah okay but i don't know is it this one is good for
 maintenance or no questions can answered by the question i don't have much about this but i just
 know that three quarters you put an inch and quarter okay uh so uh the finish so this is the three
 quarter this is the ancient quarter the one we have right there that one that is three that has a finger
 yeah i see so okay um yeah i don't know i don't know this one this one i they are all the same for
 me but this one looks slightly different and it doesn't look that white and meanwhile it still keep the
 keep the style here and little bit dark here this is what i like personally okay and yeah we can see
 if we can find something like this on their display so that you can get the product code of this one
 okay yeah this is the only thing i see
 but uh yeah this one looks like like a milk something like this maybe it's the same
 and also this one i see some of the cabinet they use this handler what do you recommend it should i
 maybe use those or maybe use something like these are more functional than those ones so those are like
 for a decorative purpose these are easy to pull things okay more reliable yes more reliable and
 if we are using every day it's more easy to pull with these ones i see i see yeah yeah
 because one of my concern is uh after a long time use this those um get loose same thing
 these ones also have two of the best i see i see i see i see okay like for these ones if something
 is heavier in draw it will be harder to pull oh so yeah because you are pulling with your uh finger
 finger finger finger so yeah that one you can pull easier oh you see gotcha okay makes sense um good
 and the other questions is about the uh the corner uh i think those are for the okay this is the
 one thing i wonder is for those corner uh things um is it easy to replace this one let's say if it's broken i
 worry about it's broken maybe after five years it's broken then can i buy a new one and then put it back and
 a bit technical question maybe it's not that easy yeah because it looks tricky because there's gonna
 be not extra space inside yes yes i wonder it's like hey if if five years later this thing is broken
 and i'm going to buy a new one can i replace it and i need to replace the whole unit yeah i'm going
 to replace the whole unit but the question is do i need to take out the whole cabinet or just take out
 the fan let me ask the guy
 maybe i will ask you one more questions before you ask the guy so every question is about the uh
 the garbage bin can i do like a custom size i have a garbage bin that i want to put the custom
 size contribution okay so or i have to use this the the one you you build in the one uh as we also bought
 from marathon or ratio they have different size options 18 24 16 15 okay yes the maximum is 24 inches wide
 or if you want to put your bin something out then we will make a pull out cabinet so that was when can
 be put there oh pull out cabinet and then put it yes but then there will be a challenge height should be
 between the like whatever space you have inside the cabinet from the bottom of this pull out rack
 so you should have to go with that size gotcha gotcha like market do have that got it got it make sense
 because i was thinking about the garbage bin but i just wonder should i use my own because i
 if you want to use your arms just uh check the height should be should not be more than 27 inches
 but the other questions is if i get the bin from the company say hey uh if i want to buy a new one
 should i like to ask them another question that's the replacement so for the bins it's easy to replace
 and uh maybe one win is around 300 or something yeah so if you need that we can install that for you
 oh okay yeah so like if something if it's broken and then oh yeah okay yeah if it's broken if it's
 neither if the bin is lost or if the the the rail is broken or the whole thing then i can buy the
 replacement easily so that's my question so if you say hey the company calls and you cannot buy the bin you
 have to redo your cabinet oh my god that would be no no if your garbage bin got damaged or something
 happening you can let us know we will order a new one the replacement cost we will uh give you
 like whatever is costing the bin and whatever will be uninstall and reinstall okay gotcha yeah
 because uh that's all i want to know everything should be easy to maintain one and like after
 cabinetry install if it's under one to two years like screw is loose or slides need to be adjust that
 will be free of cost but if it's like damaged after four years five years then there will be extra
 charges for this extra charge is fine the only thing i concern is if something some part need to be
 replaced or need to be fixed and after five or six years i cannot find the company that would be the
 no no it will be easier because these bins comes in a standard sizes so this is for 18 inches
 almost on every online website you can find it easy okay so so it will be easy to find even the company
 is nothing you said i still can find something similar yes you can find something from amazon or any other
 online even you can go with the marathon that is what i want to hear yeah and everyone is like i see um yeah
 i'm looking for the thing as well of course i think i don't know it's like why now the modern market the
 people maybe like the bigger thing the better oh my god i can get a big thing and i see something they have
 the the sauce uh uh uh accessory or a section or the path the path so what happens is like the thing they
 can put the things on the thing and then do the cutting and thing so do you have that kind of thing maybe this is like
 the plumbing company's question yeah because we don't carry it but our partner's friend have plumbing company
 so they can recommend you to them oh elegant bath maybe you heard about it mm-hmm yeah okay so is it
 that i should contact with the yes you can contact them they have a faucet sink and all stuff okay their
 company name is elegant bath okay sure once you are finished here you can check with them if you have
 time today yeah uh how does it spell uh e-l-e-g-a-n-t okay elegant space space bath no not a space so it's
 elegant uh oh space yes space bath yes elegant bath sorry okay gotcha oh yes so they are at 132 and 78
 avenue gotcha maybe i should take a look go and take a look again yes you can also because i'm also
 looking for the shower stuff oh good good that's what i'm looking for thank you yeah you can give them a
 name if you want to write down in your notes sure sure i i put that i already put it in also so i got the
 voice memo here so okay uh how to spell sorry h-e-r h-e-r h-e-e-r h-e-r h-e-r a as apple a r j i t space t o o r
 Harjitur. Harjitur. Nice to meet you. Okay, I will definitely take a look at that one. Yeah, I think that is most of my cabinet. Oh, yes. Another question I would ask is about the life. Is it that it needs to be installed with the cabinet or we need to coordinate with the electrician?
 So you need to let us know before we make the cabinetry where you guys leave the wires and all stuff. So if it's a puck light, we will make the holes on the job site and leave it. The electrician will install there. So if it's an LED light, you need to drop off that strip sample channel. So we will make the grooves from here and send this stuff to the job site.
 Yeah, because I want to do the LED one. But one of my concerns is, again, is it easy to replace the LED? I know how to do the LED things. So I know how to connect. But I don't know if it's right.
 So on the cabinetry purpose, we will make the grooves. So it's easy like every time.
 Every time, yes.
 Yeah, just tape. Because I wonder, hey, if I tape it and then later on it's broken, just peel it off and then we tape the new one and then, is it that okay?
 I'm not sure about that part. The only thing I know that we make the grooves here.
 Gotcha, gotcha. Maybe I will double-check with Nick.
 Electrician.
 Yeah, the electrician and Nick can see their opinion. Because I do see those ones, but I never replace those ones, so I don't know how easy.
 I do my home stuff, so I know how to replace those ones. But for the cabinet ones, I don't touch. So I don't know.
 Okay.
 So that would be another question. So you know what I mean? It's like I want everything to be easy to replace, easy to maintain.
 Yes.
 It's maintainable. I don't want to think, hey, I installed that one a few years later. It's broken. I cannot replace it. Damn, it's like wasted.
 Yeah, I can ask if that's easy to replace. I'm not sure about that corner unit. But for these lights and all stuff, we will make 3D renderings for you, the layout.
 Over there, we will mark wherever you need lights, where is glass cabinetry, where is solid doors, whatever you like, we will decide on that.
 Gotcha. Good, good, good. Yeah, that's what I want to see and hear. And I think that is all my questions.
 Yeah. Good.
 Can I ask you this part around him? Is it easy to replace or not?
 I won't expect it to be too easy, but I will expect to say, hey, you think that is replaceable. So do I need to tear down the whole cabinet to replace or just take it out and then replace it?
 Yeah. So I don't need to take down the cabinet. Just unscrew it with that and then pick it out and then put the new one inside and install it? Okay, good. That's what I saw already. Okay.
 Same school, same bed, everything same. Gotcha. Nice. Yeah, that's what I want. And last time, last time I talked with, I think one of cabinet guys, they say there's another one, they call it new one, it's for the corners. I can pull the things out. I don't know if it's bad.
 Pull out drawers? I don't know. I can show you one thing. Is there any other corner stuff? I can see the corner stuff you're talking about, the one we can pull out?
 I don't know. That is called magic corner. Okay. We don't have in our showroom, but I can show you the picture of that one on my phone.
 Sure. Maybe something on YouTube? Magic corner? Yeah, magic corner. Okay. It will be easy to see if I got a video. Magic corner.
 check on this one yes
