 In fact, you can see this as a compression of the Build Your AI in six weeks, in one week.
 It's compressing things these days, due to time constraints.
 Okay, so yeah, it's one week, it starts today, and then we will have demo day.
 And the next week, on Saturday, when people can present their apps here, this same group.
 And it's about creating your own public law.
 So, people who are facilitating, there's me, Misam Raji, and there's Paul, right here.
 There you go.
 And thanks to our sponsors.
 Well, one sponsor is the North BC University, which gives us this stage for free, which is really nice.
 Although, after a month, they will ask us to buy insurance, in case someone fights, breaks.
 And we also have two sponsors.
 There's Illuminate Universe, who's going to be sponsoring some prizes.
 And there's also Yaltam Dental Boutique, in Clare, that works.
 This is a very nice dental boutique, it's like a dental spa.
 Very cool.
 And she's sponsoring the bubblies, which is really nice.
 And she's also sponsoring some gift cards.
 There's some gift cards right there, for anyone who wants to save some costs, for their teeth
 cleaning, or teeth enhancements.
 And also, there will be prices, also from Yaltam Dental Boutique, like $300 price.
 There will be a lot of prices for the winners.
 And if you haven't done so already, please join the Discord, because that's where all the communication
 is happening.
 And throughout the week, it's mostly going to be online.
 So, most of the scores will be online, and we'll be sharing your work.
 Okay.
 The first entrance to Robots.
 Did anyone know that Robots?
 The word Robots started from 1920.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 Did anyone know that Robots, the word Robots started from 1920.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the word Robots, it comes from the Czech word Robota.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 Did anyone know that Robots, the word Robots started from 1920, right?
 Geeks here.
 So, the word Robots comes from the Czech word, Robota.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 And the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 So, the first entrance to Robots.
 Did anyone know that Robots, the word Robots started from 1920, right?
 Geeks here.
 So, the word Robots, it comes from the Czech word Robota, which means forced labor and servitude.
 It started as a playwright, like a theater player.
 And, if you don't know where Czech Republic is, it's next to Germany and Austria.
 And Poland.
 And Poland as well, you can see it.
 And the idea is to showcase how happens something like Robots can do human labor at scale very efficiently.
 It spread really quickly through Europe when that playwright came out.
 It's funny because the critics of the theater, they were pretty harsh in the theater play.
 But people really loved this.
 Loved it in the sense they were very interested about the concept.
 And a lot of it was driven by fear.
 Because it shows that humans can be replaced by machines.
 So, all this fear about AI replacing us started from 1920.
 And the fear would never go away.
 Okay, after that, the actual real robot that started, an autonomous robot, was 1948.
 This LC, the Turtoys.
 And it had a very simple task.
 All it can move around and all it needs, all it does is it can see light and goes towards it.
 So, if you're stuck in a cave and you have this Turtoys, it can guide you maybe through the light at the end of the tunnel.
 And it had some nice functionality and it wasn't very sophisticated because it was the first one.
 And it can avoid obstacles.
 And the good thing is like Roomba.
 You know, the vacuum in your home.
 You can go back and recharge whenever it needs batteries.
 Okay, so personal assistants are very, very important.
 I'm not sure how many people here watched Star Wars.
 But we saw how useful they were in Star Wars.
 There's these two very popular bots or agents.
 C-3PO and R2-D2 from 1977 Star Wars movie.
 And they did two things.
 So, C-3PO mostly talks.
 So, it was good with language, communication.
 It was like the interface to humans.
 And R2-D2, well, they didn't do much talking.
 It was just like people.
 That's all it does, basically.
 But it does incredible things.
 It can hack, it can repair, it can execute all kinds of tasks and so on.
 Very cool.
 So, when they did Star Wars, well, they did a lot of things.
 Like, they hacked doors, they fixed whole ships.
 So, if you can imagine fixing ships, it's like fixing your food.
 And they did a lot of support, you guys shared with allies.
 So, they were very, very useful.
 Of course, but there's human and Luke.
 So, they didn't replace, for example, Luke.
 Right?
 They didn't replace the humans in Star Wars, the Jedis.
 They're still human and Luke.
 So, even if there's powerful agents, AI and bots like these,
 they still need humans.
 Okay.
 So, right now, we are at the age of personal assistants.
 An agent that can do personal assistants.
 It started really, really big with Open Cloud.
 Because it was a very nice, what we call orchestration layer,
 of all the capabilities with AI models, LMs,
 like large language models.
 Put them all together, so that it can do tasks for you.
 So, now, we are at the age of building your own personal assistants.
 And, kind of, the reason why, right now, it's becoming more and more popular,
 is because LMs, or large language models, are strong enough.
 The foundation of these agents is strong enough to do tasks for you.
 So, it all started from, like, ChatGPT, November 30, 2022.
 And, at the beginning, it wasn't the best.
 But, over time, people saw the potential.
 They trained many different models, and they made it very strong.
 So, you can ask many different questions.
 I can explain the AI, write emails, give out code,
 and I can give you a lot of the space of all these personal assistants.
 You can imagine ChatGPT of these two agents from the Star Wars.
 The foundation, their brains.
 Okay.
 So, AI evolution.
 It started, like, I would say, from 2022.
 It's, like, a strong question-answering boss.
 So, in 2022, we had mostly just answering questions.
 And then, over time, towards 2025, they're able to suggest different follow-ups for solutions.
 Now, they're even able to plan.
 So, if you give them a very big, ambitious task, they can break it down, and plan it,
 and achieve the task.
 And then, they can execute each step.
 Like, if you use the platform, you'll see it.
 It breaks down your tasks.
 And then, it does each step.
 It executes each step, one by one, until it achieves the goal.
 And then, you can also monitor the output.
 So, we went from, like, ChatBot to agents.
 And basically, the main difference is that agents can act.
 They can execute things.
 So, the goal of this hackathon is to create your own personal assistant.
 So, you have, well, ambitious tasks or high-level tasks.
 I find my meeting with Bob.
 Hatch my items, make slides, and to Bob, you just ask for so many different tasks.
 Then, the AI assistant can go to the meeting nodes and do web search for you.
 And then, he can create slides for you, and then sends it to Bob, for example.
 Very cool.
 This is the idea of this hackathon, is to build something like this.
 It's not necessarily about after a meeting summarization, but it could be anything.
 Ideally, it's something you care about, where you want your own message.
 Okay.
 So, we can see OpenClaw as a personal assistant agent harness.
 We call this a harness.
 Harness is like everything around the LLM.
 By connecting with the services, the tools, the data, like Gmail, Calendar, Notion, sending
 to Telegram, emails, all of that around it.
 That is called a harness.
 And it kind of made it alive by Peter Steinberger, who, the way it started is like he wanted to
 create his own personal assistant for fun.
 He didn't think it would blow up, and then it just exploded.
 So, let's look at this here, OpenClaw.
 So, this is like a high-level visualization OpenClaw.
 So, you have data connectors, like Calendar, Gmail, Notion.
 The center of this is like an AI agent.
 Could be ChatGPT, Gemini, or PodCode.
 And then, it has a bunch of tools.
 Data connectors, tools.
 Tools could be anything, like send Telegram, create invoice, send email, summarize, book meetings,
 any piece of any tools that you connect to.
 However, there's also extra things that you need to add, which is memory.
 So, if you install OpenClaw, it writes a markdown file called notes.
 So, every time you write it, it writes notes to keep track of your interests, or safeguards,
 or anything that you've been doing, so that when you ask it for a new task, it can serve
 you better.
 Because now it knows more about you as you use it.
 And there's also this thing called soul.
 So, soul is like an extension of a persona.
 It's like a character, values, goals, the north stars, and it's all this.
 Agent soul.
 That's what they call it, soul.mp.
 So, if you go to OpenClaw.ai, or their website, if you install OpenClaw on your computer,
 there's like a bunch of steps that it guides you through.
 The first step, when you run it, when you install it, just like when you install a game, or you install a software,
 the first step is to decide which model you're going to use.
 AI, Quen, Synthetic, Venice, AI, Google, Copilot, OpenRouter, and so on.
 So many.
 For this hackathon, the way, we're going to encourage, and you can use anything you want, but we're going to show the plot code.
 I personally found plot code very powerful, but you can use anything you want.
 And then it will ask you to select some channels.
 It's like, what do you want to connect it with?
 So you can connect with Google, Discord, Telegram, Slack, Signal, all of these things.
 Of course, different channels have different challenges in connecting them.
 For example, Telegram is very easy to connect with.
 I connect with it in like 10 minutes, and it's what's able to send me messages.
 WhatsApp is a bit more challenging.
 It might log you off, and it might throttle your messages and so on.
 You need to buy a business API if you want to connect it properly, but that's very expensive.
 But Telegram is free.
 This is part as well.
 You will also show how to connect with Google and so on.
 So these are what we call the data connectors, connecting with different data sources.
 And then there's tools.
 There's a lot of tools, like Apple Notes.
 If you wanted to allow it to use your password to log into different systems, you can have
 it access 1Password.
 So 1Password, I use it personally.
 I'm not sure how many people use 1Password.
 Yeah, it's one of my favorites.
 I have like more than 300 websites that I sign up here.
 You can't memorize all those random passwords.
 1Password is one of the best ways to access different websites without having to remember all of them.
 But there's a lot of different tools.
 It could be Obsidian, which just keeps track of different documents.
 It could be summarization and stuff.
 So this is like OpenClaw if you install it in your machine.
 But we're not going to use OpenClaw.
 Even though this is OpenClaw, I could use something else.
 That's right.
 OpenClaw is the inspiration.
 In fact, if you watch YouTube videos on OpenClaw, a lot of them will recommend building your own OpenClaw.
 Because you'll have more control over security.
 You'll have a lot more flexibility.
 You can create your own service providers, ground data connectors and tools.
 And potentially a lot more useful.
 Because OpenClaw has its own harness.
 It might not be useful for your use case.
 But if you're using something like ClockCode to build it, chances are you'll get a much more useful patient harness.
 It's actually very easy.
 For the people who did workshops on ClockCode, you can just go OpenClaw and you ask it to create a connector for Notion or Telegram, VDC, etc.
 And then it will guide you.
 It's like, okay, I need your MPI key.
 Go to the spot site.
 Link it.
 It creates a file.
 And then it presents it to you.
 So it's very, very powerful.
 So these are some of the tools that I created myself.
 Like accessing Excel sheets, Gmail, and those tools.
 Does that make sense?
 Any questions?
 We're not going to use OpenClaw.
 Clickbait.
 Clickbait.
 Okay.
 So this is how it looks.
 But let me show you an example.
 So this is the website I built myself.
 So one of the best ways to use ClockCode is to create and to install VS Code as a nice interface.
 And then install an extension called CloudCode.
 So the chat looks like this.
 When you open VS Code, you'll also be presented with a co-pilot.
 Ignore a co-pilot.
 Sometimes I get tricked and they accidentally tell the co-pilot to do things for me.
 But it doesn't do it as well.
 So CloudCode is the one that I recommend using.
 So all the files, as you can see there.
 So yeah, this is CloudCode.
 This is the agent that you chat with to build your app, your Visual Assistant app.
 This is the code it creates.
 If you're not really a coder, you don't have to look at this as much.
 But it's just files that it organizes.
 It's nice to see what files it has been created.
 And each file could be accessing different services.
 And then this is the website that it created, which I will demonstrate in a second.
 Okay.
 So let me show you that website that I created yesterday.
 First, I'll show you the landing page.
 So automate anything with AI components.
 So instead of tools, I call them components.
 Because there are tools and data connectors.
 Components for me is anything.
 Like tools, data connectors, services.
 So these are all different things that I have created myself.
 So for example, access Excel sheets.
 So I told them to connect to my Google account.
 I run this.
 It's actually like sifting and these are actions.
 Access Luma.
 So this gives me all the Luma events.
 You see here.
 So I don't have to go to the Luma website.
 I can just retrieve them by the API.
 Access Notion.
 So I can search for different Notion documents that I have.
 Or I can create a new one.
 So let's say build the cloud code.
 It creates it and now I can open in Notion.
 So this is very cool, right?
 Because that means the fact that I can do it in a different website like that.
 That means you can have an agent that automates all of that.
 And you can send something to Telegram and it creates Notion for you.
 Or it gives you a list of Luma events that you have.
 And so on.
 I built a bunch of things just for fun.
 It was very quick to build all these things.
 Find rents.
 You're looking for like a two-bedroom.
 There you've got a two-bedroom and you can see it in the map.
 So I built this in like 10 minutes.
 I just asked.
 Give me something that accesses like Zooper, retail and so on.
 And then I can ask it in a plain language.
 And then it just creates its own thing.
 Pretty more cool stuff.
 Well, Zoom meetings.
 It shows me all the Zoom meetings.
 So you don't have to go to the annoying Zoom interface.
 So this is another very useful thing of having your own personal assistant.
 If you're tired of navigating different web apps like Zoom.
 Or like learning how to use Zoom.
 Learning how to use Notion.
 Learning how to use Luma.
 You can have it all in your own interface.
 Or you can have it in Telegram.
 That's the beauty of this.
 That's why they say SaaS.
 Software as a service is dying.
 Because you don't need these softwares anymore.
 You can just have an agent that just acts as this and displays it in a very nice dashboard.
 What else do you have?
 Google Calendar.
 There you go.
 Search Marketplace.
 I created this for fun.
 Let me say I'm searching for bikes.
 I went to PGG and Craigslist.
 Very cool, right?
 And then you can create a chatbot.
 So you can go here.
 And they can give you a personality.
 So I can call it Sol.
 The personality.
 So you can only say ah.
 Let's just see if it works.
 It's using OpenRotter.
 So OpenRotter is something else you're going to use.
 There you go.
 Or B.
 Very wise.
 It's thinking now because it's wise.
 I'm using Sol.
 So Sol is a very expensive model.
 There you go.
 You see?
 So I just created a chatbot basically with Persona.
 And it just took also 10 minutes to read.
 Yeah.
 I have the Craigslist one.
 Did you tell it which places to go to to find those listings?
 Okay.
 Good question.
 So the question was for the Craigslist component or tool that I asked the bot to find the bot
 to find those listings?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Good question.
 So I just created a chatbot basically with Persona.
 And it just took also 10 minutes to read.
 Yeah.
 I have the Craigslist one.
 Did you tell it which places to go to to find those listings?
 Okay.
 Good question.
 So the question was for the Craigslist component or tool that I asked the bot to find the
 go to Craigslist specifically on PGG.
 I did it.
 I just said, give me listings of different items around the area.
 And then it suggested, do you want PGG increases?
 And then I said, yes.
 It also found out which places to look for.
 So if there are some places which you trust, you can also tell it to actually exclusively access
 the box?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So you see this chatbot that we have here?
 So all these that I'm showing are different components.
 And you'll have workflows, which is just a mix of these components together.
 So you can imagine connecting the chatbot with the Craigslist item and Telegram.
 So now you go to Telegram, you send a message, the message goes to your chatbot.
 The chatbot accesses the component for retrieving items from Craigslist, then goes back to Telegram.
 So you're connecting different components.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 Conversation would be another component.
 Text-to-speech could be another component.
 So if you want Telegram to give you audio, you can add a text-to-speech component using
 11 labs.
 And then it gives you the audio file.
 You can do it locally.
 So for example, here I'm using open router, but you can have a model running on your machine
 that's connected to your phone.
 The question was, what a statement was, can we just mine these components to do something
 together, right?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, exactly.
 So this component's idea, I mean, it's there, but it's not really standardized.
 But now I'm seeing it more and more.
 In fact, there's this thing called Qclaw, which does this component thing.
 I thought I came up with this idea.
 And then I just, last week I saw this Qclaw, which is putting all these components, like
 a dashboard like this.
 You can imagine this as a marketplace for all the services and components that you want
 to integrate into your personal assistant.
 So one of the asks for this hackathon is to ask you to create a marketplace like this,
 like a dashboard like this, for every component that you want for your app.
 So if you went to the previous workshops in building your AI apps, the goal was just to
 build an app, right?
 If it does its own thing.
 Now, one of the prerequisites that I will, like, really recommend is to first build all
 the components that you want, like text-to-speech, chatbot, telegram, and so on.
 And have them, when you click on them, there's a way to test them.
 So when you run it, it should, like, give you the output, like here.
 Yeah?
 So you can test them.
 And then, on top of components, you can have workflows.
 Components and workflows.
 Workflows is a combination of them.
 Yeah?
 So is it a good idea to have only one?
 So the question was, is it one personal assistant versus many?
 Yeah.
 And so it depends on, like, how far the use cases are from each other.
 So if all the use cases are about the same taxes, just one personal assistant, unless maybe
 there's many different kinds of taxes.
 So it depends how different your use cases are.
 If they can be clustered very independently, I would recommend having two different personal
 assistants.
 Based on the domain.
 Based on the domain.
 Because if you have independent domains and you have one personal assistant, it's just
 too much.
 You're going to get cluttered.
 There will be a lot of coupling.
 So one of the main practices of software engineering is minimizing coupling.
 Keeping your feet.
 Yeah.
 Dependencies.
 Dependencies where there's no, none.
 There shouldn't be dependencies.
 So like emphasizing modularity.
 So this is very important when you build your code and your app.
 Always make sure to ask your agent to make things very modular.
 Otherwise things will be intertwined and then you'll be spent a lot of time.
 So if you have independent domains and you have one personal assistant, it's just too much.
 You're going to get cluttered.
 There will be a lot of coupling.
 So one of the main practices of software engineering is minimizing coupling.
 So one of the main practices of software engineering is minimizing coupling.
 Keeping your feet.
 Yeah.
 Dependencies.
 Dependencies.
 Dependencies where there's no, none.
 There shouldn't be dependencies.
 So like emphasizing modularity.
 So this is very important when you build your code and your app.
 Always make sure to ask your agent to make things very modular.
 Otherwise things will be intertwined.
 And then you'll be spending millions of tokens every time you call it.
 And it doesn't know where things are.
 And so on.
 Is this a personal assistant?
 This is a personal assistant for me.
 But then the things that you have listed out here are not related to each other as such.
 So you just sent that info.
 So this is a meta.
 Okay.
 So it's different.
 So this is more like a meta personal assistant.
 Okay.
 So this is not.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So this is more like a meta personal assistant.
 Okay.
 So this is not.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So this is not.
 Okay.
 So this is not.
 Okay.
 So this is more like a meta personal assistant.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So this is not.
 Okay.
 This is maybe not really a personal assistant.
 This is more like a marketplace of all the components that will help me create.
 Yeah.
 That I use to help me create my own personal assistant.
 Yeah.
 So this is just a market.
 I can say this is less of a personal assistant.
 At the end of the world it's just words.
 But yeah.
 That's a very good.
 So each of these things.
 Each of these tabs in and of itself is a personal assistant.
 But integrated together it's not a personal assistant.
 That's what you're saying.
 Yeah.
 So each of these tabs is like a.
 Okay.
 So let's say I want to access Notion.
 Right.
 Or generate Excalibur for example.
 This allows me to generate figures.
 Which is actually very good.
 Well you can say this is kind of a personal assistant.
 But it's not really a personal assistant.
 It's just a service.
 Because I see a personal assistant as someone you can interact with.
 A network.
 Well this is more of a connector.
 So a personal assistant is something that you can go back and forth.
 Keeps track of what you've been doing over time.
 But your components are like.
 Components are like connectors.
 Components are like connectors.
 Exactly.
 It's more of a connectors.
 Like a single service.
 Personal assistant has.
 So a personal assistant as I showed here.
 It's more like this.
 It has a use case.
 And it has memory.
 It has its own persona.
 It does different things.
 But it has concrete workflows.
 A set of workflows.
 So a personal assistant could be like.
 Let's say I'm organizing these value events.
 There's a lot of things that go into this.
 I need to first book the meeting.
 I need to get sponsorships.
 I need to see the cost.
 Maybe insurance and so on.
 So a component would be just booking the room.
 A personal assistant is doing all that thing together.
 The use case is higher level when it comes to personal assistant.
 So it's automating workflows.
 That's what a personal assistant is.
 Automating workflows.
 Automating workflows.
 That's what a personal assistant is.
 Automating workflows.
 Where is what you just presented as part of that one pane of glass.
 Exactly.
 It's one task.
 Okay.
 That makes sense.
 It's like doing one task.
 So automating workflows.
 But maybe it doesn't have to be fully automated.
 Like it could be automated with a human in the loop.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 You just got to get a job.
 Yeah.
 So that's actually a good question.
 Good statement.
 So I think the statement was that you can have an agent on top of this.
 So let's say you have 1,000 components.
 So this is like a marketplace for your agent.
 You have 10,000 components.
 And you tell your cloud code or your agent, create a personal assistant for like booking events
 here.
 Then it will decide which components are useful and create workflows on top of it.
 Yeah?
 Yeah.
 By itself.
 Create some by itself.
 So I don't tell it a protocol of like in the workflow, step A to be happening first
 and then step B and that's how you do it.
 Or should I just tell it, create your own workflow?
 But you can bet it.
 So you create the workflows and you can say, ah, this is a nice workflow or this is valid.
 So here's the thing.
 If you use openclaw or cloud code, you can even skip the part of components and just say
 cloud code, create workflows for me to book AI events without giving it any components.
 So you can go even higher level.
 But I recommend against that because then you will have a lot of risks.
 Because then it will create its own components in its own way.
 You don't know if they're secure.
 You don't know if you're going to do the right thing and so on.
 So having things in components first so you can vet them.
 So it's always nice to have each component to be audited.
 So each component you make sure it doesn't access data that is, you know, like sensitive.
 Or you make sure it doesn't delete your files or something.
 So if you enforce your agent to build workflows based on your components,
 you already have some guarantees in terms of security.
 This is the trend of like enterprise and organizations.
 They're going from just asking cloud code to do things for you to first build things in components
 and then cloud code can only do things based on your components.
 Very, very important.
 But we have more control to tell it which components to use.
 Exactly.
 Think of one step further.
 You have these components.
 You ask the agent to build a workflow for you.
 Now you have a set of workflows.
 You can also vet those.
 So if you have a workflow for booking events, you can just rerun that workflow.
 If you don't have that workflow saved, it will just create,
 every time ask cloud code to give you the workflow, it will create new workflows every time.
 You're wasting tokens.
 There's a lot of risks of doing something wrong.
 Things are not predictable because if every time it creates the workflow,
 even for the same domain, for the same task,
 because all these models are publicistic, right?
 It's not deterministic if you just recreate the workflows from scratch.
 This is the idea of cloud code, creating workflows from scratch itself.
 So the more I'm thinking about it, so basically, the realistic use case,
 you're trying to make a personal assistant for every department of your life, so to say.
 Exactly.
 Finance.
 So for events, or XYZ, whatever it is.
 Exactly.
 You can make a personal assistant for each of them,
 and they can have their own components which interact with each other in order to give you the result.
 Exactly, yeah.
 Yeah.
 So you have a personal assistant for every domain.
 In fact, this is actually a good exercise in life.
 You can see our lives are just made of workflows.
 How do I present?
 How do I create slides?
 How do I walk?
 How do I buy the cheapest rings or something?
 Because imagine all these are workflows.
 How do I do my taxes?
 So you can create these once, and then reuse them all the time.
 So imagine having a workflow for all the major things you have in life.
 It will save a lot of time, right?
 And trust them?
 Well, you audit them once.
 So once you audit the workflow, you trust them.
 Trust them.
 You just need to know the workflow, like the range of outputs it can have.
 So if you have, let's say, a workflow of finding bikes.
 You can by yourself go to PGG places, all these websites, interact with them.
 Message the seller and so on.
 You can have that as a workflow, and that's it.
 You just rerun the workflow.
 And in that workflow, you can allow the user to type messages.
 Like, okay, send to all the people who are selling bikes with costs at 50.
 So you have the agent.
 Send them all the messages through this workflow.
 It does.
 And then, set up a message to yourself, so it can tell you if it has actually sent a message
 today to someone or not, if they got a deal on some bike.
 Exactly.
 And one of the best ways for the agent to send you messages is to connect to the telegram.
 Like, I have this telegram here.
 Hola.
 Amigo.
 I'm sorry.
 I'm not sure why that happened.
 I'm really glad.
 I'm not sure why it was working this morning.
 Maybe the workflow also fixed.
 You can also have a layer to fix if anything goes down.
 We actually call this heartbeat.
 In the upper cloud, there's a concept called heartbeat.
 So heartbeat is like every minute, every 10 minutes, you check something.
 Like, you check if you got any response.
 You check if your apps are down.
 You check this and then do something based on the heartbeat.
 So in the upper cloud, there's the secret of heartbeat, which will integrate as well.
 There's also like, for example, send email.
 So I want to send an email to this one minute.
 So they're going to be an error.
 I did that in purpose because I prevented the agent from sending emails to just, you know,
 to prevent the case of sending wrong emails to the wrong person.
 So a lot of my accesses are like weed only.
 There's another thing, good thing to keep in mind.
 Start with weed only.
 Another thing I wanted to show is this cool thing.
 So there's this thing called, I learned about it recently.
 Generate Xcalidraw.
 Anyone can know Xcalidraw?
 Xcalidraw is like a very nice way to create figures.
 See like these ones that I created.
 So I created an agent that just thought, create a flow chart in Xcalidraw for Amigo, Amiga, Amigos.
 And then create a JSON file that you can copy, paste.
 Xcalidraw creates the chart.
 Well, it was working, but let's see.
 Let me see.
 Using class of 4.
 So why can't we have another component to copy this code and then--
 Yeah, yeah.
 Because this is one-- yeah, we can.
 We can.
 We can have another component that copies that to there and retains it.
 And then it becomes a workflow.
 So workflow is just a series of components.
 Let's say we copy this.
 Hopefully it works.
 Oh, there you go.
 Very cool.
 So you can like, whenever you want to create a figure that is cool, you can have it as a component.
 One thing that I want to tell people-- I remember this guy-- he's not here.
 He's a software engineer.
 He's like, ah, they want to create a QR code.
 All these online ones are paid or has ads.
 You know, just ask your IGPT or create a simple script.
 So it's like, create this, you have a QR code.
 It stays forever.
 It's actually a very simple formula.
 People think it's insane.
 But because people think it's insane, there's like hundreds of QR codes online.
 Some of them ask you to register, span, track you.
 Very simple.
 Really.
 I don't want to see anyone here using those websites.
 Does that make sense?
 Those are online.
 Does that make sense?
 Yeah.
 For each of these, you give them access to your one password account.
 The password to log.
 Now, I will recommend, I will strongly recommend connecting with one password.
 At all costs.
 All I give them is an API key.
 Yeah, key to one password.
 Yeah, yeah.
 So if you log in to Zoom, for example, or you log in to Excaligraw or Notion, there's a
 set up, what's it called, app set up.
 There you can get a new guide.
 How do you control it so if it accesses your one password, it doesn't get access to some
 other account that you don't like to share with?
 Yeah.
 So if it has access to one password, technically it has access to all your passwords and log in,
 right?
 And people were doing it and a lot of them are free, so be really careful.
 But what you, so there's another component called BrowserMCP, for example.
 So BrowserMCP could be a component which allows your computer to interact with the web.
 So let's say you want to tell your agent to log in to your Gmail or log in to an app.
 You can go to one password to achieve the login information and go to the website to BrowserMCP
 because it can click.
 But also BrowserMCP is very risky.
 I recommend having a phone for that because it can click.
 Or you can get like an advertisement that says, "Oh, you want iPhone 14.
 Click here."
 And then the agent's like, "Oh, I will satisfy my master."
 Which of these components are, their capabilities are limited to the API that you're accessing?
 Yeah.
 Right?
 Like your Zoom, it depends on what they're willing to share.
 Exactly.
 So that's another limit, there's all, there's another thing to watch out for.
 The limitations of these API keys.
 There are ways to go beyond API keys, like MCPs and there are some tricks, but usually they're
 one of the best ways to go with it.
 And are you adding some form of protection within these components?
 For example, I could ask the assistant, find the best price for a car.
 I could send a message to all my friends, "What car do you recommend?"
 Yeah.
 Right?
 That wasn't my intention.
 It wasn't my intention.
 It wasn't my intention.
 It wasn't to do research.
 Right?
 How do you control it so it doesn't go out of bounds?
 Well, so the agent can only use that, so first you have to create the components.
 Like the WhatsApp, for example.
 Like the WhatsApp.
 Oh, this one doesn't work.
 I don't want to do WhatsApp, just send everybody a message asking a question.
 So when it creates the workflow for you, basically the components, you can look at the workflow
 and remove the things you don't like.
 So here people know NA10, right?
 So you could imagine, so this is like an NA10.
 For people who use NA10, it's like a very popular workflow structure.
 So you just link here, like Slack, and then you have an AI agent that does that.
 So you can imagine that the workflow that it builds is just something like this.
 And you can remove things.
 And then you ask, "Okay, why do we use CloudCon, not just NA10?"
 Even though NA10 looks easy to use, it's actually very difficult if you want something outside
 the nodes that they give you.
 And then every node has its own behavior.
 Maybe it's not very flexible.
 So every node has a lot of constraints.
 So that's the problem.
 It's like basically creating NA10 on demand.
 That's the idea.
 Creating NA10.
 So if you create the workflow, and then one of the components that you decided to add
 was sending to everyone, you can just leave that.
 And then when you run the workflow, it doesn't run that.
 You can think of components also nodes, and so on.
 And a component is just a concept I came up with.
 A component could be a workflow in itself.
 Right.
 I understand the idea of workflow, which is pre-planned.
 I kind of imagined the system creatively come up with a better way of doing it.
 Yeah.
 So this is where we're heading.
 Now the recommendation is not to just allow it to dynamically create workflows for different
 tasks, because there's a lot of danger.
 You can bring a lot of tokens and things around the system.
 But the best way to do this is to allow it to create a workflow, and then you vet it.
 It's like, okay, is this nice?
 And then you run it.
 And then in the workflow, you can have an agent that does limited interactions, like just
 send an email.
 The workflow doesn't mean static.
 The workflow can also have inputs that you can give, like messages to send and so on.
 But it's way more restricted.
 There's another way to handle the API keys or any other secrets that you need for your
 agent to run properly.
 Especially with one password, you can create one vault, and then you can put everything
 there.
 Okay, good idea.
 Okay, so for people who want to use one password, you can have different vaults.
 And you just give it the vault.
 So there's actually a cool idea.
 I've seen people do it.
 So you know like in Twitter or on the internet, where there's a lot of announcements of prices.
 It's like, join this, and then you have a 5% probability of winning an award.
 So some people create an agent, which just logs into all of these services, and then goes
 into the draw of prices, and then it twins.
 Because it's 20 to like 10 million draws of many different events on Twitter and so on,
 and just got prices.
 So you just give it a vault.
 So the way, one reason I said that, because you can give it a vault, keep track only the
 passwords and user names for websites that you don't care about.
 Gmail, Gmail they should remember.
 Regarding the Kelly draw, it resulted in one flowchart.
 Yeah.
 But I don't like it.
 I want something else.
 Yes, you can have it a bit.
 How do we do it?
 Like I want it to be able to give me the best version possible.
 So what can I do for it to satisfy what I want as a result, and then use that to create
 the experience?
 Okay, so it's like a combination of different components.
 One component is the chat bar, and then you have the Kelly draw series to the flowchart.
 And then the image that you get from the sky view.
 So you have all these three interacting.
 So if you look at the output, and then you talk to the agent.
 You say, I don't like this color.
 Can you change it?
 And then just change it.
 Can I give it a reference that I want to create something?
 Yeah, you can upload pictures.
 You can do anything you want.
 One, because time is passing fast, but all of these are good questions.
 This card is nice and alive, asking so many questions.
 There are prices for people who ask a lot.
 So let me show you some different workflows that exist.
 That people have built.
 So, personal assistant.
 So this is the, I'll also ask the question of what is a personal assistant.
 So you can think of all these different nodes as components or tools.
 So there's a YouTube guy named Matthew Bergman.
 He's actually very good.
 I like watching his YouTube videos.
 And he created, he has a YouTube video called 21 use cases of public cloud.
 And he, he also generated these with like, Challengity or open cloud.
 But this is a CRM system, customer relations and management system.
 So let's say you wanna, you're, you're selling services.
 Let's say you're selling mentors.
 But you have a relationship with different customers.
 So many things, let's say you're connected to Deloitte.
 You're connected to a DMO.
 You're connected to many different companies.
 And potential clients.
 So CRMs, a lot of companies have been on CRMs.
 Which is about managing your relationships with your clients.
 For customers.
 So you can like, keep track of all the Gmail calendar and knowledge base of these clients.
 Discount them.
 And then if there's like a movement in the relationship.
 If one of the customers is like, oh, I don't like this office.
 I wanna go somewhere else.
 You maybe automatically send them an email.
 Personal assistant could be meetings.
 You know, like AI companion.
 So you can think of AI companion as like a personal assistant.
 That transcribes the chat in your Zoom.
 So you can have that as a personal assistant.
 It takes transcripts.
 Okay, maybe it matches it to the CRM that you had earlier.
 Finds to-do action items.
 And then adds them into your Todoist task.
 So Todoist is a very nice app.
 That gives you, well, it helps you keep track of your to-do list.
 But you can also make it after meeting ends.
 You can have it send action items to your Notion for example.
 And then you open Notion.
 Or to your Telegram.
 So you can do whatever you want.
 But you see here that the main difference between how we built in our previous workshops and here.
 In the previous workshop you just had a static app.
 Right now you have data connectors and you have these services that you connect to.
 And actions.
 You can also have knowledge base.
 Let's say you want to keep up to date with all the latest papers.
 So you have that.
 All the latest papers in AI.
 Or like different domains.
 You can connect it to different articles.
 YouTube.
 Twitter.
 Although the Twitter API is pretty intense.
 I think they have a very high cost.
 The free version is not very good.
 And just all of that.
 Then you can send it to Slack.
 Then it can send you on telegrams.
 Oh.
 You can have five papers.
 You can have social media tracking.
 Morning briefings is a very good one.
 This is one that you specifically have.
 Connects with your content.
 Tells you what should you do to this.
 Like my telegram told me today I have to do this.
 Good reminder right.
 So when it comes to workflows.
 There are different strategies to think about.
 So remember the workflow is saying getting items from Craigslist.
 The one we were mentioning right now is called.
 It's like a one off workflow.
 Like you run it.
 You run it and it does the workflow.
 But you can also have cron jobs and heartbeats.
 The cron jobs is scheduled.
 So daily briefings can be scheduled every morning.
 Every morning is scheduled and sends you the briefings.
 And there's a second one.
 You can also have cron jobs and heartbeats.
 So daily briefings can be scheduled every morning.
 Every morning is scheduled and sends you the briefings.
 And there's a second one.
 But you can also have cron jobs and heartbeats.
 And then you can also have cron jobs and heartbeats.
 The cron jobs is scheduled.
 So daily briefings can be scheduled every morning.
 Every morning is scheduled and sends you the briefings.
 So cron jobs is scheduled.
 It just waits.
 Let's say every 6 a.m.
 It does it.
 It's like the rooster in the morning when you do the alarm.
 A lot of these good cron jobs.
 Heartbeats is a bit different.
 Heartbeats means like every 30 minutes or every one hour, it does something.
 Every one hour is like a check on this client.
 Is he happy?
 Is he not?
 Is he angry or something?
 Is he happy?
 Is he not?
 Is he angry or something?
 Is he happy?
 Is he not?
 Is he angry or something?
 Is he happy?
 Is he not?
 Is he angry or something?
 Is he happy?
 Is he angry or something?
 Is he happy?
 I don't know.
 Heartbeats is like a pulse check.
 Your heart is sending oxygen.
 I don't know.
 Only a second.
 So these are the different strategies you can use to run work with.
 So heartbeat is a concept that came out of public law.
 So that's the main differentiator here, but cron jobs could be heartbeats.
 Well, there's cron jobs like every time, but it could also be every 30 minutes.
 It's the same thing.
 But as you can see, schedule at a time versus you thinking.
 There's like a subtle difference, but they're both kind of common.
 They're all like terms that are kind of new-ish.
 It's not like it's a standard term.
 Even these components cost that.
 But they really like us to see things in the form of components or tools.
 That's so bad.
 So what do you think about that?
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 I think it's a little bit more about that.
 It's an overview.
 Today, Saturday, we're doing the kick-off, as you can see.
 After this, we'll have socials.
 We're going to go somewhere.
 We're going to have kids in there.
 We're going to play some more games.
 You can just follow me.
 Socials are great.
 Socials is the best way to connect.
 For me, my biggest career growth was connecting with other people who are building.
 So, Sunday and Tuesday, or Sunday and Monday, we'll figure this out.
 We'll have app-building lectures.
 We're going to do two lectures.
 One lecture will be me, the one on Sunday.
 I'll show you how to build personal assistants from scratch.
 The lecture after that will be by Powell.
 About security.
 In fact, when I created a website for this hackathon,
 they immediately sent me this cloud analysis of some potential loophole that it has.
 But don't worry about it.
 It's a good idea.
 Whenever you build an app, send it to a cloud or something that's security.
 They're the same thing.
 The CLI agent, or a cloud code or VS code, they're the same.
 It's just the VS code that makes it easier to view things.
 Because then you can see the files, you can see the code.
 You didn't mention about this codex.
 Huh?
 There's also codex.
 Meaning that if you're already paying for OpenAI, for ChatGPT, you can use alternatively codex.
 So the things we're showing right now is another scaffolding on top of the scaffolding that already exists.
 So cloud code has its own scaffolding, right?
 It can plan, it can do things for you.
 The components, you can think of these components that we have.
 It's an extra scaffolding.
 It's like having a building that you're scaffolding and then adding others.
 And then Monday and Thursday, we're going to go to WeWork together.
 These are also one of the best places to be at.
 More like inspiring each other and making a lot of progress.
 We've seen a lot of people come to WeWork in those days and then spend the whole night just working.
 It's very epic.
 One week is a lot of fun.
 One week is a lot of time, but it's also enough time to build it.
 Like that thing I built, I mean, maybe I have experience.
 But you can build something if you have all nighters.
 But it's doable.
 I've seen it now.
 Also, access the, everything is in the hackathon website.
 So you go to the website that I sent in the blast and discord and so on.
 Go there and log in.
 You can use your domain email and password.
 The password is 123.
 It's a security loophole.
 But you can change the password when you're in.
 There isn't much information about you anyways.
 The only information is like the thing that the tasks you have completed is pretty much.
 And you can see there's a leaderboard.
 So there's a leaderboard about the people, how many people have finished their tasks.
 And the leaderboard is sorted by how many have finished.
 So they're last.
 I mean, there's always a last no matter how good everyone is.
 And then, in demo day, what we're going to ask is to create a demo video of 1.5 minutes max.
 Don't go beyond 1.5 minutes.
 No slides at all.
 I've done slides before.
 Just the lives.
 You interact with the app.
 So this is a nice app for AI system that helps people do homeworks.
 Our previous cohorts from a different program.
 And you just showed this in 1.5 minutes.
 And then we're going to just play the video.
 So you don't have to do a live demo.
 Then people ask you questions.
 If you submit this, you'll get your certificate of completion.
 And you'll have the chance to win the prices.
 So that's all that needs to be done.
 It's only delivered.
 Yeah.
 The winners get prices.
 So from 1180 Universe, first place $150.
 Second place $100.
 Third place $50.
 From Dental Boutique, you're going to get this very nice package.
 They're happy.
 $300.
 Because Dental Boutique is really nice.
 They have the best people in greeting.
 Trust you.
 Based on how people greet you, you'll get attracted to one place or another.
 Yeah.
 And these are some of the judges.
 Alina is from 1180 Universe.
 Claire, from behind, will be one of the judges.
 So make sure you...
 You're good with her.
 Maybe if you come to her mental fatigue, you'll get bonus points.
 There will be some biases.
 She's there at the front desk.
 Oh, I've seen your app.
 So, okay.
 I'll send the address.
 I'll send the address.
 I'll send it on this one.
 Today, right?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 I'll do a very quick intro about myself.
 I'm Yisam.
 I did my PhD at UBC, postdoc in DPL.
 I work as a research scientist now.
 And I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 I'm going to get to the next one.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 I'll do a very quick intro about myself.
 I'm Yisam.
 I did my PhD at UBC, postdoc in DPL.
 I work as a research scientist now.
 I'm a professor at UBC.
 And now I'm managing other research scientists.
 A lot of AI.
 I've been doing AI more than 14 years before it became big.
 The time when I was doing AI, I was doing the AI you went to.
 Paul, do you want to introduce yourself?
 Do you want to like so that people can hear you?
 Yes.
 I believe that some of you have already known me.
 Hi.
 I'm Paul.
 I'm a senior data scientist at Jefferson Fortline.
 So I work in digital innovation domain.
 And the daily basis I'm actually building congenital systems,
 primarily for like AI solutions in general digital emissions.
 And I'll be helping you some to guide you through the process.
 And I want to focus especially on like aspects of debugging and security.
 It's very important.
 And you may have heard that open global and exploded.
 Right away there's like adoption in the industry.
 But we're so focused on us unboxing the digital solutions and security.
 And one primary example is NemoPo from MPDR.
 And if you read anything about NemoPo you will notice that a big part of that is so-called open shell.
 We get to the idea to sandbox access to code execution, like data availability.
 And usually we are dealing with a trade-off.
 So the more flexibility and independence your agent has, the more useful it gets.
 But the higher the risks.
 So I guess we can find some trade there.
 My background is in computer science.
 I use all of the coding agents on any basis, both private projects and enterprise level.
 Upcode, which is great projects from OpenAI.
 We were quickly mentioning Tisum is recommending here Hotcode, which is really, really great.
 But at the same time if you're already paying for OpenAI, ChargeGPT.
 ChargeGPT, the OpenAI has this thing called Codex, which we hold it.
 And there are three main components for both of them, which is like CLI, the visual code plugin, which is so great.
 And I highly recommend using visual code because it gives you much more visibility for what's happening with the code that you're building.
 And of course the desktop app, both the code and Codex have about desktop apps.
 And last but not least, you can use it to build your own agent and personal assistant.
 But also once you have those components, which is like a tool or XP server, you can essentially use it from within a plot or codex as personal assistant.
 And last but not least, later I may have some time to talk about it, but there are different agent SDKs that you can use.
 And one of them is a cloud agent SDK, which essentially uses a full harness that Anthropi already built.
 And you can plug in all of those components, and you can do something with digital types of codecats.
 Yep. Thanks.
 So, hopefully you'll get better.
 Thanks, Mal.
 That's good.
 So, we're going to have a quick break.
 We're going to come back this time.
 Let's come back at 12:30.
 We're going to come back at 12:30.
 Feel free to grab those gift cards for mental.
 $30, whether you're insuring them.
 So, we'll have a quick representation on this part of this.
 And one thing is that keep your laptops, like, ready.
 Because the next part will be you're going to group together and you're going to build a quick app.
 It has, like, a landing page and some walk-out components.
 So, good.
 Even those online, we're going to tell you how to do it.
 So, you get your VS code with cloud code or codex ready so you can build that, like, landing page.
 And, uh, yeah.
 And then you get the chance to present.
 Yeah.
 So, let's go.
 Let's come back and close, uh, drink.
 I'm using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 Right, right, right.
 You're using the pilot.
 No problem.
 You're using the pilot.
 I'm using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 I'm using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 You're using the pilot.
 No problem.
 You're using the pilot.
 I didn't use it, but I saw them in the open box. They were using the open box. They said they were using the open box.
 But they said they were using the open box.
 They used the open box. They used the open box.
 They used the open box. They used the open box.
 I don't want to say that open box is the open box.
 They used the open box. They used the open box.
 Now we can't buy the open box.
 They used the open box.
 I don't know if it was the open box.
 They said they were using the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 They used the open box.
 The open box.
 If you want to buy an open call, you want to buy an open call, and you want to buy an open call, 1-4-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5
 I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one. I'm going to go to the next one.
